# 187: Josh Evans – My First Year Trading Full-Time...
# source: YouTube auto-captions (en-orig) https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=nG1JmFEzpOM

[00:00:02] Market speculation and risk. This is the Chat with Traders podcast hosted by Aaron Fifield. Hey folks, what's good? Welcome to episode 187 of Chat with Traders. So, I had this idea recently that it might be an interesting exercise to have a few less experienced traders on the show. On Twitter, I wrote, "I'd like to chat with someone who one, has just completed their first year of full-time trading. Two, started with a minimum of $20,000.
[00:00:36] Three, is or isn't profitable. Not important as long as he or she is taking deliberate action to improve." From this tweet, I received an overwhelming number of DMs for consideration and after filtering through them all, there were several people who really stood out and who I will be speaking with. So, there's going to be several episodes in the near future with guests who fit this general description. The first cab off the rank though is Joshua Evans, my guest for this episode. He's 30-something years of age, living
[00:01:08] in Melbourne, Australia and he's actively trading ASX equities. This conversation with Josh follows his progression from newbie investor to intraday trader, including his motivation and preparation for going full-time. A few specific things which have helped Josh to get his equity curve pointing in the right direction, which you can take a look at for yourself in the show notes at chatwithtraders.com/187. Plus deliberate processes Josh has implemented for improvement, one piece
[00:01:40] of advice he received that made a big difference, and that's not all. I think I made a great decision to bring Josh on for this episode. He was a fantastic guest and I am sure you will agree. Uh and I'm also sure he'll be be at some point, too. And now, showtime, folks. 187, Josh Evans, here we go. go too big and then you have this huge loss first day back. You're just like, "Oh, man."
[00:02:11] That really rattles your confidence. Oh, definitely. Anyway, man, let's get into things. Um I'd like to ask you straight away, like, what were you doing prior to trading? What were you doing before you got into this? Yeah, sure. So, I was a radiographer for 11 years. So, yeah, working in hospitals and stuff. Yeah, doing basically I sort of specialized in CT, but went through starting in X-ray, all that sort of stuff, hospitals, and then ended up in private practice. And yeah, I was a chief
[00:02:43] chief radiographer there, which was kind of good cuz I had it like more of a It was still clinical, but an admin role as well. So, I did have my laptop in the corner watching the uh market as well. Hope my employer's not listening. All right. So, how did the the interest in trading actually come about? Yeah, so I I actually went So, I lived overseas for a few years um doing radiography. And so, I was in the UK, and over there, you just get much more sort of
[00:03:13] responsibility within the role. And so, coming back to Australia, I you know, I was like, you know, I came back and and then I sort of felt like I'd taken a backwards step, really. Um you know, cuz we couldn't do half the things that, you know, we were um doing over in the UK. And I think that's all because of the NHS is so understaffed. So, whereas over here, we've got a decent workforce within our health system. So, yeah, the like I just felt I wasn't doing as much as I
[00:03:43] used to. And I actually started looking um into I wanted to sort of keep moving up in the world, I guess, and keep challenging myself. So, I I wanted to actually do medicine. Um you know, get into the study medicine just to sort of keep working in health. I thought, "Oh, well, that's probably the next step." And I'll cut a long story short. Basically, I did the GAMSAT, and which is the entry exam, and there's a few other sort of variables you have to get through, but I did that, and anyway, I didn't end up getting in all because of my GPA from
[00:04:15] uni. So, that kind of it I I hit a crossroads, really. I was like, "Ah, you know, I wanted to sort of move on from um radiography, and not sort of cap I mean, it doesn't all come down to money, but you know, radiography is pretty capped, I guess. And and then so I started looking at other other ways to sort of get a better paying job, I guess. And that's when I started looking um yeah, into the market. Okay. Yeah, that totally makes sense. And what was your
[00:04:46] what was your first introduction, if you will, once you did start looking at the market? Like, where did your experience begin there? Yeah, so I wouldn't recommend this, but um I had Look, I had a bit of money come through from inheritance, and um you know, obviously, I thought, "Okay, this is a good start." You know, I might as well make a positive out of negative. So, that's when I had money to sort of put into the market. I didn't start big or anything like that. But, you know, that I got a mate, "Oh, you got some money? How about you chuck chuck it into this
[00:05:17] this gold stock this gold spec? You know, it's going to go to a dollar. It's going to do this." All that sort of stuff. And you know, my eyes lit up thinking, "Oh, this is too good to be true." And of course it was, but luckily, I got away unscathed. And as I said, I didn't have a heap of money. Like, it wasn't a big position whatsoever, but I think that was the first introduction for me, and I I really didn't like the feeling of not knowing why the stock was moving up and down. And so yeah, from that little introduction,
[00:05:48] that's where sort of my passion for just learning as much as I could about the market, that's where that all came into play. Okay. So, you you took bit of a risk on a one particular gold stock. Yeah, just the one. So, I had no real idea about, you know, spreading your risk, diversifying a portfolio, things like that. But, I mean, from that experience, it it did lead me into um looking how to sort of play it a bit safer, but uh yeah, as I said, that first first little
[00:06:19] dabble, I guess you if you will, yeah, it was what sort of started it all for me. Okay. Tell me about Was it around 2015 that you started investing in or getting a bit more active with the investing? Yeah, well, I was probably quite lucky. I timed it well. You know, we had that sort of around 2015-16, we had that sort of mining spec run, I guess, if you and um especially in lithium lithium stocks um over here on the ASX. So,
[00:06:50] I again, I probably was quite lucky that you know, I had where there was a it was active. There was a lot of a lot happening in that sort of end of the market, you know, so it didn't sort of bore me out of it. You know, I've seen of late they just those sort of stocks that I used to um well, I was investing back then, yeah, they've been beat down and jeez, they just bore you out. So, but yeah, that's when I I really got started and because there was a lot happening, it accelerate your learning curve somewhat because
[00:07:21] you're not just sitting there each day twiddling your thumbs, having a look, and you know, things were moving 5-10% a day and they'd pull back a bit, and yeah, so and as I said, I just didn't like not understanding why these were moving. So, I just started devouring books, online courses, some good, some bad. Um and yeah, that's that's probably the yeah, the best year for me to start if if I look back and have a think about it. I was quite lucky in that aspect. Yeah. So, you say you were quite lucky, but what what gave you
[00:07:53] the idea to actually put your money into these lithium companies? I I did do a lot of research and I say that with a grain of salt, but you know, we've especially over here and on the on the ASX is everyone's heard of the the forum type website HotCopper. So, that's that's kind of what there there was some people on there with some really good knowledge and there was a lot of people who just, you know, were just obviously shilling the stock. Yeah, that's kind of where I sort of learned how to look into researching
[00:08:25] whether, you know, certain companies were buying mines that had been mined before, so I sorry, you know, tenements that had been mined before or been drilled before even back when, you know, lithium wasn't the hot stock. So, there was that that's when I started to realize, okay, you can kind of get a little bit of a head start here by, you know, looking out, seeing if you can find any old drilling drilling reports or things like that. And yeah, I got really lucky with one stock AVZ.
[00:08:56] I got in quite early there and the reason I was pretty confident it wasn't actually my real research. It was It was somebody else on that forum who just done a lot, you know, so much research and found had purchased all these old articles on I think when the Belgians were mining this this this this tenement was in the Congo. So, there was a lot of talk like, oh, it's never going to mine, things like that, but it didn't worry me because I'd seen that sort of first
[00:09:28] lithium bull run where it things were just going crazy. Anything that drilled well, you know, they were they were bagging left, right, and center. So, I just thought if I can get set um you know, maybe I can make a decent bit of money on this and yeah, that's that's probably I mean it is you're right, there was some research into it, but at the same time it's all about timing, isn't it? Not sort of being the last on the train. Yeah, you said that right. Yeah. Can you share us just rough
[00:09:59] numbers about how much you made during this period? Yeah, sure. I did into the AVY said trader put in about I think once I'd built my position, I built it around between one 1 cent and 2.4 cents and I ended up taking I I had about $25,000 position. I ended up taking it out at 21.5 cents, but that was on the way back down and I think it reached a high of 38 8 cents. So, it was around a million shares. So, it's pretty easy. It was a million
[00:10:30] shares at 38 cents was 380 grand and to me that was poor, you know? That was like, all right, I'm doing pretty well here, but I mean at the same time that that really got blown out of the water that stock and you know, it's trading down at 4 or 5 cents at the moment. So, I was lucky I took it out at the top side. I ended up pulling out about $215,000 out out of $25,000 position. So, it was a great start and it it did give me um
[00:11:00] money that that to put aside that I can, you know, really give intraday trading a go cuz that's where I really wanted to sort of head. Um I didn't really like the fact of the overnight risk like one day it goes up 10%, next day it goes down 15, the next day it goes up 12. Yeah, it was it was hard to sleep at night. I'm not going to lie. Yeah. Well, let's get into that. Tell me about the motivator to go full-time. Yeah, so probably yeah, the motivator was I wanted to get into
[00:11:33] intraday trading cuz I think that just suits my personality better. You know, I don't like sitting there waiting. I'm not the most patient person. So, I started that's you know, when I came across Chat With Traders actually and you know, I started listening to all the guys who do intraday trading and I really thought yeah, that you know, that suits me to a T. You know, it's right up my alley. So, I started thinking well, you can't intraday trade just by sitting there for 1 hour a day. I mean, you can you can trade the open I guess, but
[00:12:03] I don't know. To me the way the market unfolds the rest of the day is almost like a bit of a blueprint as to how it's going to maybe act the next day especially in some stocks, you know, levels things like that. So, I started to realize that I needed to sort of I needed to put time into it. Um and yeah, what I did was I spoke to my employers and I said and I was I was worked pretty hard at this the place I was at and you know, it was a busy clinic and I said look, I I I really want to go part-time and have
[00:12:35] one day off a week and they they knew I was into trading and you know, they said I was just a trader and I said oh well, yeah, it is but um you know, I I think it'd be quite good for my I felt like I was getting burnt out as well. Um you know, I said that and anyway, they agreed that I could have one day off a week and that's where it sort of started to head in towards that full full-time um that was the plan to go full-time but you know, obviously I wasn't going to chuck all the eggs in the one basket straight away. I wanted to get a feel for it, get the set up um and you know,
[00:13:07] set all my uh you know, try all the different software things like that. See what what fit me best I guess. Seems like you took a pretty smart approach to this. Like you uh you were well capitalized. You had a decent sum of money behind you. Like you weren't living week to week and you kept your job. You just dropped down your hours so that you could have some time to watch the market intraday, even if it was just one day a week to begin with. Yeah, that's it. I think
[00:13:37] that's probably what's Yeah, it's helped me. I I did have that that little foundation even though when it did come to going full-time, I realized, "Wow, I don't I know nothing." But and then when I look back, I'm like, "Okay, I did know something." And I had that foundation there, which was a little step up when I did go to full-time and it wasn't as overwhelming, I guess. Yeah. Now, I'm not sure if where this fits into the timeline exactly, but I this may have also contributed in some way or been a bit of a motivator.
[00:14:08] You were diagnosed with some form of cancer, right? Yeah, yeah, that's correct. So, it's funny what you know, I worked in in radiography and you know, doing scans, CT scans every day, that sort of diagnose people with cancer. And you know, I had these lumps in my neck and you know, being being a typical guy, I was like, "Ah, no, they'll go away." And anyway, probably buried my head in the sand for probably 3 months. And yeah, they just weren't going away. And I I got a few of the girls sort of from work in ultrasound
[00:14:39] and say, "Oh, can you have a bit of a look here?" And they Yeah, they're like, "Oh, Josh, go see a doctor." I'm like, "Ah, no, no, no, no. I you know I don't get sick. I'm the one who does the scans." But anyhow, they finally convinced me to go see a doctor. And yeah, thank God they did. Yeah, cuz I So, I had a biopsy and I I didn't lose a a lick of sleep whatsoever. I I thought they'll just give me the royal treatment just because of, you know, I worked in the industry. And anyway, 6 days later it came back. Yeah, and I was I diagnosed with
[00:15:10] Hodgkin's lymphoma. So, what exactly is that? So, basically that's it's Yeah, so it's like a a a cancer, I guess, if you will, of the of lymph nodes, so um yes, I had a the posterior cervical chain. So basically the back left side of my neck um I had probably about 15 like decent lumps, you know, sort of small marble size felt like you know, it did feel like marbles sort of embedded under my skin in in the muscle type
[00:15:41] thing. And so basically what it does is it I didn't feel feel sick or anything like that, but um you know, what it does it start it's quite it's quite quick so it's a spread. So that's why you want to get on to it quick, but that's in saying that's another reason why it reacts so well to treatment. Luckily I got it at stage one. It hadn't spread anywhere, so it was just in the that lymph node um area as I said before and um yeah, so went into the chemotherapy about so it was all pretty quick. So within 2 weeks I was I was doing chemo.
[00:16:13] And yeah, that's that's what made me sick. I thought, you know, being I was 33 at the time. I was pretty fit um and I thought, yeah, you know, I'll be fine. But no, that that really smoked me. It hit me for six. That's crazy, man. What causes it? Like is there anything they know of or is it just a pretty random? It is it is a like a little random. So they I don't want to scare people, but um so if you've had the Epstein-Barr virus or um what's more commonly known as glandular fever, you have a higher
[00:16:44] chance of getting it. You it doesn't mean you will whatsoever. It just that's one of the things that they've found that um you know, people who have had uh glandular fever in the past are a little more susceptible to getting it. It doesn't mean you will. It doesn't mean it's a much more increased chance, but there's some sort of link there. Um I didn't know I'd had it. It turns out that I had had it in the past cuz when they did the biopsy, they could tell that yeah, I had had this Epstein-Barr virus. And when I I back,
[00:17:15] I'm pretty sure I know exactly when it was. was I was living in Portugal um in a hostel working there. So, you know, many late nights and I just thought that's what it was. That's why I was so tired, but that's probably what it was. It was the Epstein Barr virus. Full on. And how long did the chemo treatment take? So, I was pretty lucky with that chemo. I had It's a pretty It's a decent dose. It's called ABVD. That's the the drugs Well, that's just the the acronym they call the drugs and it's a decent a decent
[00:17:45] whack and I'm a decent sized guy. I was about 100 kilos at the time. So, you know, they work out your dose by weight. So, anyway, I got a fair bit and it was every 2 weeks I'd have chemo and that was over a period of 2 months. So, it it wasn't It definitely wasn't as bad as some people, you know, like when I was in hospital for a bit. I got admitted for a while and yeah, there was this guy next to me and you know, he he was on his sort of ninth ninth month of chemo. So, I was really lucky in that aspect. You
[00:18:17] know, as I said, it did make me pretty crook and you know, lost the hair and everything like that, but yeah, as far as it goes, it could have been far far worse. Yeah. Yeah. Wow. So, you're all good now? I'm good. Yeah, so coming up in March, fingers crossed, will be 2 years in remission. So, yeah, fingers crossed for that. But, I feel really good and you know, all my checkups have been great and yes, and that's it, man. I just I've got a pretty positive outlook on it. It's one of those things where as you said
[00:18:47] before, yeah, I mean, getting around to this long long segue, I guess, but yeah, it did it made me realize we don't know, as grim as this sounds, we don't know if we're going to be here next week. So, you have to I guess it gave me a little fast forward to sort of tell myself, well, you know, mate, just if you want to keep doing one day trading a week for another 2 3 years until you can, you know, build up more money or something like that. Um you might not be here. And so, yeah, it really did give me that sort of
[00:19:18] motivation to be like, all right, I do have enough money put aside. Like, I'll just have to sort of make some I won't be able to live the same lifestyle I've been living, but, you know, that's sacrifice, isn't it? And if you want to do something like this, you can't expect that you're going to live exactly the same lifestyle from the get-go. So, I thought, yeah, why not? Time's now. Um let's do it. And yeah, so that's that's what I did. So, how long have you been trading full-time for as of today? As of today, I've been probably about
[00:19:50] uh what are we now? January, so about 15, 16 months full-time. And I've had, you know, a little little uh probably had a month off in that um in that period there. So, yeah, just a bit over a year. And um I haven't looked back, to tell you truth. I absolutely love it. Well, that's good to hear. That's really good. So, obviously we highlighted a couple things just before that you uh were capitalized, you had decent funds behind you. And to begin with, you started to cut down on your hours at work. When you
[00:20:21] did take the the plunge to go 100% full-time trading, were there any Was there anything else which you did to prepare? Like, you you kind of hinted there that you made some slight adjustments to, you know, your lifestyle your lifestyle. I don't imagine they were huge dramatic changes, but um was there anything else which you did do uh in order to prepare for this this change? Well, look, I had a I was living with a girlfriend at the time, so I was lucky in that aspect, too, that I
[00:20:52] had heard a sort of not rely on, but support, I guess. And so, I wasn't too it because we when you have to think about it, if especially if you work a social job, basically, if If going to go start trading full-time from home, you're not going to see many people. And that can be a big factor for some people, you know, they they um you know, I'm a pretty social guy, so the other um I had I had her to come home every day, which was great, but yeah, probably a little tiny adjustments that people don't really think of was,
[00:21:23] you know, I made sure that I was um I had I was going to the gym all the time, gym classes, so I could see see people and just sort of have that day-to-day interaction. Yeah, little little things like that. But yeah, there wasn't a there wasn't a heap of like well, probably another thing, it's not really on that same vein, but preparing to go full-time was getting turning the um like I was I had a sort of little home office, but I was like, "Nick, if I'm going to do this properly, I want more screens." And
[00:21:54] um you know, so I had to get better desk, and because I'm sitting in this chair all the time, you know, I went out and sort of I I really sort of turned it into a proper home office, and I think that's kind of important cuz is you know, you you might be a month into it and you're like, "Oh, you know." And you start sort of spending time Googling better chairs, better desks, better screens, things like that. You just want to sort of hit the ground running cuz that's you know, it's I don't know, maybe it's like when you're a kid, you just learn so much in these first few weeks of um it's such a
[00:22:25] you know, sensation that you're sort of thrust into, you know, you you're trying to absorb as much, and you don't want to be too distracted, I guess. Yeah, I think that's a that's a really good point, actually. I mean for me personally, I've never kind of thought twice about spending money on that sort of thing, uh because I spend so much time in front of the computer. Um it's like when I started the podcast, I just went out and bought like the best equipment I could. All those little things, they they really matter. You know, if you're trying to you know, you're struggling away on a little laptop or something, you're not going to get great results. You know, you want to
[00:22:56] be kind of put yourself in the best position to succeed, I think. Yeah, no doubt. Yeah, that's And that was kind of my reasoning as well. I was like, you know, as I said, I had that little bit of money put aside that capital anyway, so I didn't dig too deep into it, but I did buy stuff that was, you know, decent screens, you know, and you want to have a good set, especially if you start running, you know, um, more screens, you need to make sure that your your computer can handle it, things like that. Yeah. Um, yeah, so I think you do have to sort of you have to get into that mindset where I mean, you don't go
[00:23:27] crazy, but you you're going to have to spend money to make money if that makes sense. It does. Yeah, you need to invest in yourself. Yeah. Let me ask you what misconceptions did you have, or even if they weren't misconceptions, maybe unexpected challenges, um, or or realizations that you came to, um, once you did begin to trade full-time? I'm pretty confident guy, like, you know, not, uh, overconfident, but at the same time, I felt like I'd prepared myself quite
[00:23:58] well to to step into full-time trading, and I didn't expect to sort of, you know, be making money day one, even, you know, three, four months in, but I I I probably thought, you know, by six months I'd have a decent handle on it, uh, and that just wasn't the case. I think, you know, you've got you sort of have to realize that the market changes every day, and that it sort of morphs from, uh, you know, what it was two months ago, it's completely different to what it may be today.
[00:24:29] Um, you might be sort of in these journey ranges, or, you know, you might be in a strong sort of small little bull run, or a, you know, bear run, type things like that. So, that was probably the one of the things that I didn't really think about too much. Like, you know, you we all read the books and stuff, yeah, market conditions, this and that, but I don't know, maybe in my head I was thinking, oh, you know, setups will still work in this, setups will work in that, but you know, you start making progress in in the typical market condition, for example, and then as I
[00:25:00] said, 2 3 months later, it's just not working and and I didn't really think that would happen. So, like the market sort of changes so quick. So, that was one of the big sort of challenges. Just when you sort of feel like you're making progress, next minute the market changes and nothing you're doing is working. So, you kind of it almost feels like you're back to square one a little bit. How much money did you put in your actual trading account to to get started?
[00:25:31] So, I started I had I had 50 50k to start with, but with um with my broker, you know, I I trade on a leveraged account, so I didn't really need that. Um and you know, I was speaking to a few guys and you know, who'd been trading for quite a while and they just said to me, "Look, if you don't need it in there, uh don't don't have it." So, I pulled it back to 20 and that was that was good, you know, I never sort of cuz I wasn't going massive to start in any case. Um you know, in some some stocks you can
[00:26:01] get 5% margin, so you can still put on decent size, but um yeah, that that's probably another thing that I didn't really think about, but you know, I I had I have a mortgage on an apartment that I rent out and um you know, so I have an offset account and it was it's it's embarrassing to say this, but yeah, I I didn't need that 50 grand in the you know, that extra 30 grand in the trading account. So, it was so much better off just sitting in my offset account um taking a bit of the interest away. So,
[00:26:33] but 20k was on a leveraged account, I think that was definitely more than enough for um when I started and I probably could have even gone as low as 10. Yeah, I mean, the way uh things work in Australia trading uh direct market access CFDs, you can get pretty substantial buying power with with $20,000. so especially like in your first couple months trading, even if you've got the money, it's it's probably not wise to be trading, you know, 50 grand leveraged up. Um, you
[00:27:05] know, you can you can do enough damage with 20 20K. Yeah, 100%. And that's the other thing as well. I mean, you you kind of eliminating sort of an external risk there as well. If something was to go wrong with the broker, um, you know, which has happened in the past, yeah, you know, we've all heard stories like horror stories like that that you know, at least all your money wasn't in that account. So, if you don't need it, there's no real reason to have it. So, how much did you What's the most you've you've drawn down on the account? Like you said, um, you know, these first few months
[00:27:36] weren't you weren't going up in P&L. Uh, how much did you come down? Yeah, I ended up coming down to I was pretty good to start with. Um, I wasn't going too big or anything like that, but then as I started to increase my size, I started to get um, yeah, uh, I wasn't, um, overconfident, but I wanted to get comfortable being uncomfortable, if that makes sense. Um, and I probably took that a little bit too far. And so, I probably drew down about 12 12,000, so I
[00:28:06] was down to around 8,000, and that was when I started you you you you start to realize while I am trying to increase my size here, but it gets in your, you know, you you don't trade properly you if you go too big too too soon. You're not trading properly. You're not trading your plan. You're you're watching your P&L every tick and you're and, you know, you're not getting comfortable becoming uncomfortable. You're just becoming way too uncomfortable. So, that was when probably that period where I took the the uh, big drawdown. And yeah, I was
[00:28:39] again probably lucky I only had the 20K in there cuz who knows, maybe I would have even been sizing up bigger, which again is I I probably wouldn't have, but you just never know when you get into sort of that mindset when you're spiraling a little bit. Yeah, might just take one day when you're not thinking clearly and just get a little bit too aggressive when you shouldn't be. Yeah. When you drew your account down to round about $8,000, was there ever a point where you started to doubt your ability to be able to do
[00:29:10] this? Definitely, yeah. I started to think you get all these negative thoughts like oh you know you idiot, what have you done? What's your mother going to think? Things like No, but I I did. I started to sort of doubt my ability and I thought you know, I started to think oh you know, is it is it luck? Was it luck? And then I and I also was struggling as well because that when I was down at eight eight K, I couldn't size like I used to. So even
[00:29:41] and what I was doing I I was probably I was probably over trading a little bit as well. So I had my account was sort of maxed out across you know, five six different trades or setups type thing. And all of a sudden you know, a really good setup and a plus setup would come through and I had no money to left over to chuck into that trade and so I'm you know, pulling out of these other trades I'm in and it was just it was a vicious cycle really. It's it's not a good place to be and and then
[00:30:11] obviously that really started to yeah, weigh on on what I thought my ability was and thought mate, you've you've bitten off more than you can chew. This isn't something that gets spoken about very often and I actually had a really good conversation on the subject in an episode which I was hoping to put out in December, but unfortunately wasn't able to release it. I tweeted about it at the time. One of the things which was spoken about during
[00:30:42] that episode was having this point where you give up. Did you have a point about or was sort of a an idea in your mind about when you might give up if this wasn't like did you have a cutoff point? Yeah, I I had sort of you know, it's funny you start to uh bargain with yourself when you get
[00:31:12] into a sort of these positions you're like ah you're like ah you know, if you it's stupid you sort of you are you it's you look back and even saying it is embarrassing cuz you think if I was listening to this conversation like it was this guy what's he doing but um yeah, you do make these bargains with yourself like ah you know, if you can just you know, stick it out if you don't lose any money if you don't go down to six grand or whatever, you know, you're good to go you're good to go and I'll add a bit more to the account so you can start
[00:31:43] the sizing up again but and then also as well once I started to sort of get into that state of despair well not despair but like yeah doubting myself like you're saying before I I had sort of said to myself all right, if this 20 grand goes I'll give you I'll I'll put another 20 in but that's it. If I wasn't making progress if I was going to just get you know, blow up another 20 grand I did have to sort of really look myself in the mirror and say mate it's just not
[00:32:14] working. You know, you're going to have to um have to give it up because otherwise it would just if I'm not making progress when I should be then you know, I think that what's what they say that's the definition of insanity doing the same thing over and over and expecting a different result. Mhm. Um and I often sort of bring myself back to that saying that in my trading as well, I'm like, "What are you doing, mate? You You're doing what you did before. Um you and you're expecting it to work for you
[00:32:45] this time. And occasionally you will get that luck, but that's not You don't want to be riding luck in your trading career. So, but yeah, I think I had that sort of probably Yeah, that if I'd lost that 40 grand, like if I'd give myself an extra 20 and lost that, I would have really been like, "All right, mate. Um back to the Centrelink." And I I'd start hitting the job ads, but no, thankfully it didn't get to that, but it's funny you say that cuz um there's another I I I I kind of have checkpoints for myself because, you
[00:33:17] know, I'm still sort of I Don't get me wrong, I'm still learning. I learn every day. Um and I'm not Um I know I'm not invincible in the market. And so, I I do have checkpoints that I, you know, sort of give myself. And one was just, you know, after Christmas, New Year period. I wanted to look at, you know, my sort of my results and my equity curve and make sure it was pointing in the right direction cuz that'd been over a year by then. You know, it's just a couple weeks ago. And yeah, I thought, you know, if I'm not after sort of 15, 16 months starting
[00:33:48] to point that equity curve up, maybe I've got to have a real hard look at myself and and just think, you know, I'm not cutting the mustard here. And anyway, I've got to the point and I've Yeah, I've passed that checkpoint. And then so, I've kind of given like in my um year to review I'll do um a six-monthly checkpoints now. I'm just make sure I'm heading in the right direction. Make sure I've got enough money to to last the next 6 months, things like that. And I And that's that's kind of It's Yeah, it's funny you bring that up. I think that's probably
[00:34:19] especially for I look, I don't know. I'm not I'm no expert, but maybe the first definitely few years you can't sort of get ahead of yourself even when you are having good periods. I think you still potentially need to sort of give yourself that that check and make sure you are on the right path and you're not just um you know just being blasé about what your results are like and whether or not you're moving forward. Yeah, I think it's definitely something which needs to be given some consideration. It needs to be factored in a little bit. Obviously, it's one of
[00:34:50] those things which you just don't really want to think about as a as a newer trader. You're obviously coming to this very optimistic, but you know, there is a there is a real opportunity cost to um the time that you invest in trying to learn how to trade and and find, you know, a way to extract some P&L from the market. Yeah, 100% and then I think another thing as well is the reason why you sort of you don't think about it is you you know, you don't want to feel like a failure. Like a lot of your family and your friends know you've taken this big step and not everyone
[00:35:23] makes it in the market and it's I mean taking steps a brave thing to do, especially if you've given yourself every chance, you know, to make it, but even if you don't it's it's not um as long as you weren't, you know, stupid and just gambling your money away on the market, but I think that's probably one of the harder things. You It's your pride as well. You So, you don't want to think about not, you know, this give up point because you're like, oh, that's a it's in your own mind you think it's a failure. Yeah. Yeah, you're dead on. And I mean,
[00:35:54] I have a huge amount of respect and admiration for anybody who's taken the step to throw everything into this and try and learn how to trade, obviously responsibly. Yeah. Yeah, that's it. Like, you know, you you have to be That's thing. You have to be responsible for your own actions as well. You can't blame the market. Oh, some guy hunted my stop, whatever. Like mate, you just occasionally you'll get, you know, you will get slippage and stuff, but if you keep your risk tight, you can you don't you're not just sort of throwing everything away. Yeah, It be responsible
[00:36:26] for your for your own actions, really. Too right. So, how have you been trading and has there been like obviously your accounts bounced from that $8,000 point. Did you change what you were doing in any way? Like was there a significant change or did you just tighten up some things? Um and just I haven't asked you this question yet, but like just for anyone who's listening, just give a real brief kind of overview to your your style and
[00:36:56] approach to trading. Yeah, no doubt. So, pretty much what I do is and you know, you've probably heard a few people say it in your interviews before. On the ASX especially intraday trading, we don't get these huge swings and moves throughout the day. So, my style is it's discretionary, but I do try and you know, sort of scalp with size, you know, sort of in the lower denomination stocks where you're not paying massive brokerage cuz we have different brokerage structure to how it's traded in the states and
[00:37:26] overseas, but yeah, so basically I'm looking at the lower denom stocks. You know, small mid mid-cap. Probably mid-cap I'm more comfortable. I'm still not brilliant with the small cap cuz they can have some um some pretty big swings, but uh yeah, basically what I try and do is I try and you know, trade stocks that um fit that bill, but also they have a catalyst. Um so, they're they're in-play stock. Um and then, you know, so they're going to they're going to have movement throughout the day. And yeah, basically
[00:37:57] I I try and use Well, I try and read the order flow and jump in front of the big money when I can and then, you know, jump in, have it spike up or spike down, whichever direction I'm going. And then, yeah, with a little bit of size myself and then, you know, scalping around throughout the day, really. Scalping like a madman. So, when you talk about scalping, uh how many trades, just rough numbers here, might you take on any given day? Yeah, probably not massive compared to what, you know, you'd read up about scalping, but I
[00:38:29] don't sort of hold for, you know, like I won't even hold some stocks for more than an hour, but like I'll probably trade on a good day, like when I'm not over trading, I'll do maybe eight trades or, you know, I might jump in and out of a stock a few times. So, trading around probably five, six stocks, maybe trade them a couple times each way if I've got a good feel for the stock. And when I say scalping, I'm trying to Let's say, for example, a stock you know, broke through the $1 mark, the $1 level, and then you get that instant
[00:39:00] sort of spike up to a $1.03. You know, if if there's no follow through and there's, you know, someone's put someone's jumped on the bid and I just doesn't feel like it's going to be much follow through, I'm happy to take that. So, you know, sort of your three people or six people, I guess, cuz we trade um half points there. But you with our commission structure as well, scalping like that wouldn't work on a stock, say, you know, a $70 stock, cuz you're just going to tear up your account with commissions there. So, you Let's say,
[00:39:31] for example, I've seen on some of the brokers here, it's it's Let's say, for example, introduction rate is 10 10 basis points. So, a round trade is going to cost you 20 basis points. So, if you took 1% of a move in a $70 stock, so let's say you bought it right at 70, it went up to $70.70, and you sold that's 1% move. Well, what's that? 1/5 of your profit is going to get taken in commission there. So, and then if you were if you were just
[00:40:02] scalping that, you have to get point two of a percent just to break even just for your commission. So, yeah, if you were to take 15 15 points, so 715, sorry, $70.15, for example, you'd only to be breaking it even. So, you do need that bigger move um in those larger stocks just make it worthwhile with your commission, if that makes sense. Yeah. I mean, I will just say if you're paying 10 basis points and you're actively trading intraday, you might need to get a broker. Yeah, it's it's going to be tough, very
[00:40:33] tough. it. Yeah, but I think that's another thing, you know, building a relationship with a broker and they know that you're sort of serious about it and I mean, you know, you can get competitive brokers out there and as long as they're giving you what you need and I yeah, I think that's um another big thing you have to think about. Yeah, your brokerage and and how much commission um percentage of your profit per day you're sort of you're you're doing. Yeah, it's a big part of it. Now, I guess the the first part of that question which I asked you was when you
[00:41:04] drew your account down to around about that $8,000 mark, things kind of turned around from there. Um and I don't mean turn around as though like, you know, just you came down and you bounced straight off, but yeah, things started to pick up. Yeah. Did you do anything differently or did you just find a better groove in the market? Like, can you explain that a little bit? Yeah, sorry. I did go on a on a tangent there. I think what I was saying was yeah, I was starting to look yeah, at I went down to trade those lower denom stocks cuz what was
[00:41:34] happening was I was, you know, trading sort of, you know, in you know, stocks that were 10, 20, 30 dollars and I just wasn't getting those moves. I wasn't, you know, if for each if I had a win rate of 50% for example, you know, every trade that I lose, I've got the commission on top of the losing trade as well. So, um I started to go down to the lower denom stocks and yeah, really focus on the order flow and not just sort of, you know, where a level is like, oh, you know, it should bounce here, not actually even looking at the um
[00:42:06] you know, what what the price action is doing, whether if there's heavy selling into the support, things like that. I I really started to, yeah, take it much more I put a lot more energy into learning how to read the order flow, and that's where things started to turn around and pick up for me. Okay. Just on that point about order flow, is there anything uh specific which you're looking for? I know these types of things can be a little bit hard to put into words, but
[00:42:36] uh is there something that you'd like to see within the order book? In the order book itself, I don't really pay all that much attention because we've all seen it, you know, what's there one second might be pulled, you know, it's it's it's ticks down one one point, but I think what I, you know, what I really sort of am looking for is I'm looking for uh I just almost tell myself a story, as weird as this sounds, like
[00:43:08] if I'm in a stock that I have that has the catalyst and it's and I think, all right, there's if I see selling pressure, I'm like, okay, let's say, for example, I was, you know, um a big player and I had um I had to get rid of, you know, 3 million units of stock type thing. I'm not just going to chuck it all on the market at once because, you know, that's not going to work. So, what I'll look for is I want to see um you know, these all that these sort of big
[00:43:38] volumes of in of selling and then maybe letting the the order book fill back back up a little bit, and then once a few more bids appear, yeah, I want to see it sort of get sold back into again. And I was try I I try and tell myself, okay, that's where the um where where the direction is. Um that's where it seems to be anyway, and then, yeah, I want to and I I I I try and think in my head if I was that sort of broker that needs to sell all
[00:44:08] that stock. So, I'm looking for those bigger heavy sellers. So, once it pulls up a little bit and you know, it might not get as far back as it Let's say for example, it's gone to 625 and it's been sold down to 620. You know, it's so it's almost like a I don't know, like a pond just slowly filling and then all of a sudden splash and all the all the bids get splashed out of the water again by that big sell. I know it's a weird analogy, but that's what's going through my head at the moment. This particular example which you've described here, would this be something
[00:44:40] which you're looking to trade on the short side or is that a long opportunity? Yeah, a bit of both. So, I'd probably be looking for a short opportunity if I could. So, there is a an example I can think of actually in my head. There was FMG, so Fortescue Metals which you know, they're big in iron ore producer in Australia and I remember the iron ore market Sorry, the iron ore chart was going uh crazy there on the SINA website. Anyway,
[00:45:11] I remember it just kept going up and up and FMG was just it was going down and I thought, "Oh, when's this you know, it's got to be an opportunity coming here for long." It just didn't for days and days on end. Iron ore just kept trending up the price of iron ore and FMG was just getting sold into and that's when I really started to remember, "Okay, you want to look for that massive massive seller who obviously has that big order." Um and that's when even though in your head you're like, "Oh, there's got to be a long somewhere." Until you
[00:45:42] you you know, you don't see the seller around for a while then you know, I think especially in that situation, that was a short pretty much every day and I actually did quite well on that cuz I finally figured out, "Okay, there's a big seller here and he's just he's every day he'd appear he'd appear it move up a little bit with sort of in conjunction with the um with the iron ore price then it would just get smashed back down. So, um but obviously intraday, you do look for selling into levels and
[00:46:13] um you might have a quick scalp off say like a round number. Usually you're going to get some um defense if there was a seller. Let's say for example selling into $6 and you're probably going to get a lot of people who are like this is a good price to buy. So, you know, if you can get that Sometimes if you get a little pop through to the downside, you might look for a quick long scalp. Um but I wouldn't be if there was a seller that I had sort of spotted in the order flow, I probably wouldn't be holding on too much longer.
[00:46:44] Okay. Okay. Josh, I would like to ask you moving on a little bit here I guess to actual improvement. Are there any steps you're taking currently like deliberate steps to help you improve and get get better? Yeah, I I do journal every day and like, you know, it is a bit of a bore sometimes but to be fair I really think it's a crucial part in in getting better because you make six, seven, eight trades a day
[00:47:15] um for example and then basically what you do is you go you you know, you sort of go to bed and you get up in the morning you just completely forgot about them. Like in your head you might you you remember the sort of the basis of the trade but you won't remember the intricacies of it. So, I think writing it down at the end of the day, you know, really sort of getting into the nitty-gritty of it and you know, writing it up in detail, I think it it does help quite a fair bit and I do notice that when I really do put in couple hours after the market
[00:47:45] closes into my journaling, I do start to improve again and um and that's my goal. Well, that's yeah, not my goal but I've sort of given myself the task this year of you know, you're never too good to journal. Well, not in my position at the moment anyway, so I'm just I'm just making sure I do that every day, even if it is takes me 2 hours after market. I think it's one of those things that I have to do. 2 hours, that seems like quite a long time, you know, 10 hours a week sort of thing. What goes into your journal? Like
[00:48:16] if we were to look at that, what what what would we see? So, what I do is I I type in all the metrics for all the sort of the trade, like the profit, the loss, the percentage of the commissions per trade, cuz I'm really trying to focus on that as well. Like I want to let these if the trades can run a little bit, you know, if I think I can squeeze a bit more out of them. Like even an extra pip here and there might cover the the cost of the commission. Um and so, you know, knotting into that percentage of the
[00:48:47] of the actual percentage of the commission off your profit. If Sorry, I've waffled on a bit there, but you know, I'm looking at also like every setup I've taken, I'll annotate the chart as to where I got in, where I got out, and it it does help me a little bit. Since I've been, you know, annotating the charts, and I don't really trade off charts, but I think it it gives me I still will have a chart. I do watch a chart when I'm trading, um but I think it sort of helps me especially taking a step back. I
[00:49:17] annotate the 5-minute chart. So, I think what that does it helps me the next day stop you know, getting caught up in trading the noise, and and also look for better entries. Cuz sometimes I'm just, you know, I you know, 6 months ago I'd be like, "Oh, momentum's here. I need to jump straight in." And then, you know, you you get sort of offside a fair bit if it doesn't you know, flush through if you were shorting through a level. If it doesn't flush through straight away, you know, you you getting offside and you're starting to feel a little bit like, "Oh, I'm not that comfortable in this trade
[00:49:47] anymore." Um but yeah, ever since I've been doing these annotations, I've realized, you know, usually you have a more time and you can kind of be a bit more patient and wait for a better entry. Um it's just so much easier to hold a bit longer. And then obviously what I'll do as well is I'll do a write-up of the of the trade itself and what um like exactly what I did and, you know, what I could probably have done better. And um yeah, if it's if it's a really good setup, I might even, you know, playbook that setup and that's obviously
[00:50:18] a an SMB reference, but SMB Capital reference, but yeah, I've I learned a lot from that and that's probably why I journal so much. Okay, so there's consistent journaling. Uh how about actual goals? You know, it's a new year, start of 2020. Uh have you thought about specific goals for the the upcoming 12 months? That was, I guess, one of my goals to really journal hard. Um you know, put in the hours. Um but another I want to sort of keep
[00:50:50] you know, my equity curve just keeping up in that nice steady steady line. And I think what that comes down to is when you sort of you look at your your metrics of your trades, like your you know, your P&L ratio, your um what your sort of win-loss percentage is, things like that. So, I'm trying to keep those metrics sort of stable. Um not too volatile if that makes sense. Obviously, I'll take the volatility to the upside, but you don't want it to come down too much um cuz that's when it starts getting a bit messy. So, um but another
[00:51:22] thing as well I've really give myself a goal for this year is to to really focus on the market and what it actually does. You know, I was speaking to a mate today, Grant, who has you know, sort of trade with chat with him during the day. And we're talking about we've never traded in a on the ASX. You know, he's similar age to me, maybe a bit older, but um he he's never traded nor have I, in when our market is at all-time highs. So, this is this is new for us. So, it's almost like a new
[00:51:55] frontier for for traders in our position. What does the market do when it's when the index is at all-time highs? So, that's another goal of mine this year to really focus in on where the market is, what the market's doing, and how that sort of affects my setups, and yeah, the trade outcomes, things like that. Yeah, I like that last point. That's really interesting, actually. Yeah, I think it's it's something as as I was kind of saying I I mentioned it
[00:52:25] a lot earlier on, but yeah, you know, the market does have all these different variables that will morph itself into, but this is a completely new one for us where, you know, like I think today what did we finish at all-time highs at what Um the XJO finished at 6994.8. So, that's an all-time high for us, and yeah, you're kind of wondering in in my head I'm like, is everything too is it overvalued? But, the market keeps going up. So, there's people that are willing to sort of, you know, keep paying, or, you know,
[00:52:57] buying these stocks because there's no sort of overhang. Um so, I guess you just have to trade what's in front of you, and and really listen and focus on what the market's saying, I guess, as weird as that sounds. Moving into a a new regime, pretty much. Yeah. Yeah, exactly. Mhm. I'd be interested to ask you this question. Obviously, if we look at how you've traded over the past, let's just say 12 months, uh you've been profitable. So, if we look at your account balance, you know, end of
[00:53:28] December compared to January at the beginning of the year, uh you've made money. But, would you consider yourself to be consistently profitable? Because a lot of people, that's their goal is to be consistently profitable, but I also think a lot of people perhaps don't really think about what that might look like. So, do you feel as though you've reached a point where you can comfortably say I'm consistently profitable,
[00:53:59] you're confident in your ability to make money. How do you envision consistency to look like and have you reached that? Yeah, it's it's a good point because if you'd asked me that 3 months ago, I would have said, "Yeah, yeah, I'm at that point where, you know, I'm consistently profitable now. I'm making enough money that I can live off." But then again, you know, November, December came around, there just wasn't as much opportunity for you know, the trades I take and I just churned sideways for quite a while. So, you know, I
[00:54:29] I think Yeah, to me, consistently profitable is just making money in you know, having good results in all market conditions. Probably one of the things, the biggest lesson I learned out the last 2 months where I was churning sideways was when the opportunities aren't there, you just have to take a step back. Like don't not trade or anything, but don't try and push it cuz every time I was trying to push it, that was when I was you know, I'd have a good day and I'm like, "All right, tomorrow
[00:54:59] you know, just you know, push those trades." And I'd just give everything back and it was just it was yeah, it was a cycle over 2 months and uh I mean, I didn't really fall back too far on the equity curve. I mean, it is just it just looks like a if you look at it, it looks like a chart that's consolidating, but I wouldn't say I'm at the point where, yeah, especially after these 2 months, I've realized, yeah, I'm definitely at the point where I can rely on just having money coming in week in, week out. You know, you have to sort of get to the
[00:55:30] point where even when you have a good period, you you have to sort of squirrel them away, I guess. Squirrel your nuts away, so so to speak, but yeah, I think consistently profitable to me the goal is to yeah, make money even if it's not, you know, making the same amount of good returns week in week out that you do in a um when the when the trades are there for you, still don't lose and just sort of keep keep the um equity curve ticking up by not doing too much and just waiting being patient waiting for the
[00:56:01] conditions to return in your favor, I guess. One last question, Josh, just to take us out here. One piece of advice which someone gave you, or if they didn't give you directly, maybe something you've heard or read somewhere uh that actually made a difference. I've I've been pretty lucky in the fact that there's a pretty good online community here, especially in I mean I'm sure it's the same all around the world, but in in Australia a lot of people who
[00:56:31] trade in the ASX um there's a lot of people out there on Twitter, there's chat rooms, things like that. And I was struggling a little bit I I had this one really bad day um and you know, it was sort of after I'd learned uh well, I you know, sort of increased my skills in learning how to read order flow and things like that, but it was a uh what was it the trade was um I think it was Challenger Financial and I absolutely got smoked in it like every every time it tried to so you know, it
[00:57:02] it gapped up, it looked like it was going to go further and it pulled back to about the seven 700 level um like I I say it in cents, so $7 level, and I I remember thinking, oh, this is a good good spot to jump in. You know, I probably went too big too soon and then it dropped through and I thought that's okay, I've still got plenty of bullets and I just kept adding in and and it just wouldn't bounce and anyway, I you You I I took my biggest loss of of
[00:57:33] you know, it was my worst trade, my biggest loss of my um you know, short trading career, but it really got me down. And anyway, I have a few people that as I was saying that I trade with and you know, sort of going through through the trade with Chuck Chuck and Libby um after market. And Libby said said to me, she goes, "Why were you in that trade?" And I said, "Well, what do you mean? Like I was just waiting for it to bounce." She's like, "Yeah, every time it bounced, it couldn't even get sort of two, three ticks up, which was you know, in a um
[00:58:04] $7 stock, you know, it was hardly moving up whatsoever. It just gets sold into, sold into." She's like, "You had a bias there, and you completely gave up your sort of you know, your order flow reading there just because you had a bias that you thought it was going to bounce cuz it was an earnings earnings season's play. And it that from that day onwards, it really stuck like one, I was kind of embarrassed that you know, I had been so undisciplined. And then two, she she told me pretty bluntly um and I and I really thank her for it
[00:58:35] because from that day onwards um I I really started I one, I was disciplined, but two, I really got a bit more of a handle on on reading the order flow cuz as I said, every time that stock tried to bounce, it would be sold into and sold into heavily. So, it just wasn't there was no long trade there whatsoever on the downside. Basically, she told me a new one. Um and but it really stuck in from that I think that was the lowest point in my equity curve um and ever since then, it has odd
[00:59:08] Sorry, lowest point in this last financial year that we've just had. So, starting in June, uh sorry, July. Yeah, since that that day, you know, my equity curve's gone up. And I think I had about 10 or 11 winning weeks in a row, like green weeks in a row after that. So, one, it sunk in. And two, because I you know, I review my trades with these um these guys after after the market every day. I I don't want to sort of be embarrassed again um if that makes sense. You have that sort of pride in yourself as well, but yeah, she she gave me um
[00:59:41] an earful and I deserved it and it stuck. It's basically she said forget your bias, trade trade what the price action's doing, trade the order flow. Yeah. I love that example, man. Absolutely makes sense, too. Yeah. Do you mind sharing some figures around that? Yeah, sure. So, I think by the end of the trade, like I was trying to scalp my little way out of it, but then add in I think by the end of it all up I was about four and a half grand down just on that one trade and for me that was a pretty big loss. That was you know, like
[01:00:12] I I'd be happy with a four and a half grand week, let alone a day, so at that stage and yeah, that was um basically yeah, really put me in a place, but ever since then I think after that day I end up within a month I'd sort of I had a you know, $20,000 month and then um followed it up with another $10,000 month and then yeah, so we're kind of sitting where I'm in that sideways action at the moment, but yeah, I'll probably have Libby to thank for that um that ear bashing she gave me. Oh, that's awesome, man.
[01:00:43] Good stuff. Uh Josh, if someone wants to follow you on Twitter, uh would you mind sharing your handle? Yeah, of course not. Um so, if they want to follow me, my handle is @ Josh J Evans 35. Um and there's a picture of me with a big dirty mustache on there with a with a sausage dog in my hand, so you won't miss me. Okay. Very good. Well, I do want to say Josh, uh I appreciate you uh putting your hand up to do this this podcast and I also appreciate how open you've been and
[01:01:15] sharing. I think it's going to be very relatable to a lot of people listening. Uh you know, a lot of people who are considering uh going into full-time trading probably gives them a bit more of a understanding about what to expect. Yeah, thank you very much for doing this. No, it's been a pleasure and I'm yeah, really happy that you've had me on here to tell my tale and I hope it hope it works cuz it is pretty lonely out there when you first start and a bit daunting. So, uh it can be done and hopefully in 2 years time I I'll come back and I'll be more suc- I'll be successful trader.
[01:01:47] For sure. Yeah, we'll have to lock that in. It would be great to have you back sometime. Yeah, for sure, man. That'd be good. All right, Josh. Enjoy your evening and we'll chat soon. Cheers, buddy. You've reached the end of this episode of Chat With Traders, but rest assured there are more episodes loaded with real market insight and zero hype on the way soon. So, to stay updated with each great new release, subscribe to the podcast in iTunes and we'd love it if you'd leave a rating and review. We'll catch you next time on Chat With
[01:02:18] Traders.
