# 293 · Rick Bandazian Jr. - The Art of the Wait: Merger-Arbitrage Killer Moves
# source: YouTube auto-captions (en-orig) https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=HOYS3rdl1C8

[00:00:00] I was sitting at the desk. I don't remember the ticker, but the Wall Street Journal broke a story about XYZ being in in talks to be bought. Boom, boom, boom, I typed the ticker in and boom, boom, boom, I hit the hot key. And whether it's in trading or any anything else in your life, sometimes you react really quick. And then 1 second later, you go, "Oh, Like, what did I just do?" So, I get out of the trade as fast as I get into it, and I look up at my P&L and I go, "Oh my god. Like, I made more money than I made as an analyst in
[00:00:31] about like 20 seconds." Markets, speculation, and risk. This is the Chat With Traders podcast. Chat With Traders is on episode 293. Hey traders, how's it going? Tessa here. And this just might be our last episode for 2024. We want to take this special opportunity to thank you all for regularly tuning in to Chat With Traders. And we deeply
[00:01:02] appreciate you. Please share the podcast with as many people as you can if you feel that this podcast can add value in any way to someone. Thank you so much. As we reflect on 2024 as we near the close of it, whether you've been profitable in the markets this year, or perhaps more importantly, gained wisdom through the challenges, the setbacks, and the breakthroughs, do you agree that we've got to have grown stronger? It may not feel like it at times. I deeply know this because I'm going
[00:01:34] through it, but each stumble taught resilience, each loss offered lessons, and our persistent belief in ourselves is critical and will lay the groundwork for a promising 2025. I really, truly believe that. Well, we also want to take this opportunity to wish you and yours a wonderful holiday season. Merry Christmas for those who would be celebrating, happy holidays, happy year end, happy New Year, happy everything.
[00:02:04] Now, let's get to our interview. Today, you'll be listening to a wonderful chat that my co-host Ian Cox had with our new guest. His name is Rick Bendayan Jr. I feel like Rick is, you know, just a cool guy. And he's also a dear listener of the podcast, which we really appreciate. So, Rick is a season trader with over 15 years of experience in event-driven and merger arbitrage strategies, or merger arb as they would call it. He transitioned from working as a
[00:02:36] banking analyst at J.P. Morgan and First New York Securities to then establishing himself as an independent trader trading for a living. Rick has deep expertise in anticipating market moves based on nuanced corporate actions, and he has a very methodical approach to understanding these types of catalysts such as the merger arb type of events. I could be wrong, but I'm guessing that he was able to leverage some of these skills that could be one of the edges that he gained as an analyst as he crossed over to trading, even though the
[00:03:07] two roles are completely different. I mean, I've tried to trade these types of events, and let me say that it would be like gambling on my side if I had to trade against other traders like Rick because he's equipped with real strategies and methods with edge for these kinds of very specific plays that he has perfected over time. He's honed his craft, and we will get to gain a lot of interesting insights as Ian dives into Rick's thoughts process and setups. Well, I'm going to leave this fun, entertaining, and also informative and educational chat for you to enjoy.
[00:03:39] So, without further ado, ladies and gentlemen, we're so pleased to introduce Rick Bendayan Jr., originally from the New Jersey, New York area. Well, Rick, I'd like to welcome you to Chat With Traders. Thanks for having me out. I appreciate it. Yeah, I'm a long-time listener and it's always a great forum to hear different perspectives and different people's process, which is always really interesting for me. So, I appreciate you having me out. Yeah, yeah, yeah. Well, tell us a little
[00:04:10] bit about your uh kind of where are you now? Where did you grow up? Early interests? Sure. You probably never heard this one before, but right now I'm in South Charlotte and I'm in my office on the second floor of an old firehouse that I own. And my tenant has a brewery downstairs on the ground level. So, if we hear anybody getting rowdy, just bear But yeah, so so I live in South Charlotte. I've been down here for about uh six or seven years. Um married, got a couple kids. We moved down here
[00:04:41] uh from North Jersey, Bergen County, New Jersey, which is just outside of Manhattan. So, I'm you know, I guess I consider myself like a New Jersey, New Yorker and and um I stayed local for school. I went to Fordham University, which is in the Bronx, New York. And you know, I played ice hockey in high school. I was an ice hockey player at Fordham. And I was a finance major. And people always ask me why why was I a finance major and I don't really have a great answer for that. I guess I just
[00:05:12] uh didn't know what I wanted to do and and uh knew that I wanted to make money and I figured it was just, you know, probably a pretty good idea to do that. Living, you know, pretty near Manhattan, there'd be job opportunities or whatever. So. Yeah, yeah. How did you first become interested in the markets? You know, I I didn't have any family, direct family in the business and I never traded, you know, I I know a lot of your guests they, you know, they traded when they were really young or they traded in high school. That that really wasn't wasn't me. Um so, I guess
[00:05:45] you know, maybe it was some of the coursework Fordham. And you know, once you hit your junior year, you get to start sniffing around and trying to figure out what you want to do. So, being an investment banker was like the sexy job at the time. And uh you know, I don't know how much appetite Um I guess there's I guess there's still appetite for doing that, but I kind of muscled my way into an investment banking gig. All the bulge bracket firms, they came to Fordham uh for various jobs, but they didn't come at the time for investment banking jobs.
[00:06:16] And I you know, I just old school, you know, pounded the phones and sent resumes out. This is like 2000. So, I landed at JP Morgan in their investment banking group. The same I was in the syndicated finance department. And for people who don't know what that is, we basically, you know, it's a sell-side gig and we were raising capital for corporates um and LBO firms. And it was it was mostly a boring job, but every now and again we would do financing for an LBO, which is pretty exciting because
[00:06:47] I could see like all the work that I did, that 90, 100-hour weeks, um the deal would hit the tape, right? And there'd be excitement and conference calls and the stock would gap up and all that stuff. And for those that are not familiar with the investment banking saying, you get hired as an analyst, you do 2 years in the same group. If they like you and you survive, you can get invited back for a third year. Well, we had some crossover work with the equity capital markets group. Um
[00:07:18] and I made like an unusual push into that group after a year. And that was closer to the markets because that group also raised capital for corporates, but they were raising uh capital via secondary offerings and convertibles. And that was even more exciting for me because everything I did was on the tape, right? There'd be a a convert and you know, the the stock would get hit and and it was like, "Hey, cool. I worked on that." But, after doing that for about 2 years, I realized that
[00:07:50] that life wasn't really for me. It wasn't the hard work. It was just I don't know. You know, you got to play politics, and when you get hired as an analyst, you're going to get you're going to get paid between X and Y salary and X and Y bonus. And even if you did a 2X or 3X better job than the guy sitting next to you, you were just going to get paid the upper end of that range. So, I wanted more of like an immediate report card, so to speak. So, I was really learning about what the buy-side was versus the sell-side, cuz
[00:08:22] when you're a kid and you're putting your head down for 100 hours a week, you really don't have time to to do a lot of that stuff. So, I you know, I decided to pass on that third-year gig, and I wanted to make my own luck. So, I basically got hired away to a prop trading firm. You've probably heard of it, First New York Securities. And, um, a ton of talent came out of that firm, and still does. And, I was hired not as a trader, because that's the typical path there. You get hired as a
[00:08:52] uh, as a trader, but you go through At the time, they had a really incredible trading program. I'm sure they probably still do. And, you got hired uh, as a clerk, and you would clerk for somebody for like a year or 18 months or whatever. And, when you were ready, or when the firm felt that you were ready, you'd go out on your own. They'd give you you know, X million, and they'd say, "You know, go ahead, fly free. You know, do do your thing." And, typically, those people would, um, they would trade pretty similar to the person that they clerked for, right? Cuz that's what they're used to seeing and following. So, anyway, but
[00:09:24] I'm an analyst at this point, and the PM that I worked for traded what's called event-driven. And, I didn't even know what the hell that was at the time. Obviously, I do now. And, it's exactly what it sounds like. You're trading around some sort of an event, a catalyst. It could be typically like a corporate action. It could be a merger, a spin-off, split-off, Dutch tender, um anything with an event, an analyst day, uh could even be an earnings report.
[00:09:55] And the trades would be, you know, call it short to intermediate term uh term time frame. And that's really what I wanted because it was you know, you trade, you get an immediate report card on what you're doing. So, that's what I did for a few years. I would generate ideas, and the PM that hired me knew that I could, you know, run models and comps and talk to CFOs and, you know, model cash flow statements and all that stuff. And you know, do idea dinners and all that and and all that fun stuff. So,
[00:10:27] you know, I did that for a few years. We ended up spinning out into a long-short equity hedge fund doing the same thing. I had a couple of guys working under me. I was like, you know, still on an analyst role, not a trader. Couple years into that, I got hired away. Yeah, just curious. So, as an analyst there, like what what did you do? Like how did you advise um the traders or what uh the traders look to you for kinds of information and kinds of analysis? As an analyst, I guess whether it's
[00:10:58] event-driven or fundamental or whatever, you're just constantly digging and digging and digging and talking to as many people as you can for ideas and looking at the calendar and okay, you know, your buddy's long XYZ. Well, why are they long? Okay, that's kind of interesting. So, you're like an idea factory is really what you are. You're you're really trying to come up with ideas. And then you bring them to your portfolio manager, your trader, you know, whether it's a small firm or a
[00:11:29] large firm, and then they sort of run it through the gamut. Okay, that's interesting. You know, why? You know, what's the setup? What's the timing? What's you know, what are the events on the calendar? So, that's pretty much what we would do and you know, it was long and short, but we stayed primarily in equity equity land. We did some fixed income and you know, capital structure arbitrage, but typically it was just a directional equity bet. Just to circle back here. So, I did that for a few years. Then I was hired away to a Canadian one of the biggest Canadian banks
[00:11:59] to help run their event-driven and merger arb prop book and did that for a few years and now we're in '08. Just before the crash. That's great timing. Yeah. So, so just just to be clear. So, you went when you went to the Canadian firm, are you now transitioning from an analyst role into trading or were you doing the same? No, so I I was doing the same, but I was, you know, at some elevated role or whatever. So, I wasn't quite co-portfolio manager, but I was uh kind of the right-hand man to a guy
[00:12:30] that had done merger arb for a very very long time. And this is probably about '05 '06. So, we had, you know, really good run. We had a good run for about two to three years until '08 came. And then obviously '08 blew everybody up. It's it's a really funny story in hindsight. At at the time it wasn't. But um if anybody's I've never been let go of a job in my life. And you know, we were making money and the bank was unlike most other banks and
[00:13:00] most other firms. Like there were just holes in balance sheets everywhere. So, we had uh certain you know, we had a certain amount of capital that we were using to run our strategy. And they just said, "Look, sorry. Game's over." And they you know, they they said uh you know, "We need that capital for for elsewhere." And uh like I said, I've never been let go of a job in my life. And again funny now, not funny at the time. They bring me in a room and they say they tell me what happened and they tell
[00:13:31] me how it would, you know, they're letting the whole group go. And I said, "All right, great." And I said I said, "When?" And the guy goes, "Right now." I was great. That's terrific timing. I'm having my first kid in about 10 days from now. Oh god. And and anybody who has a job where they can like press buttons and trade that can do damage if they go rogue. I mean, I would never dream of doing this, but it's kind of funny. You go back to your desk, your computer's gone. Your keyboard's gone. So, anyway, our whole group, we know we
[00:14:02] go out to the bar, of course, and commiserate. And I wake up the next day with a really bad hangover and I end up calling one of the I'm not going to name him, but I call one of the founding members of First New York. I had a good really good rapport with. I told him what happened and he says, "Look, there's an event-driven guy here that wants an analyst and I'll and I'm also going to give you a pad. Come in Monday." I was like, "Holy that's great." Like So, I'm out of a job for I didn't know how long and then I'm really out of
[00:14:32] a job for like 48 hours, right? So, so now I'm in this Now I'm like a trader, right? So, I'm I'm still doing the analyst work. But now I get a pad at First So, what does that mean? What does that mean? You get a pad? Uh they basically give you they give you capital to trade. Uh-huh. That's what that means. So, and so again, I get invited back and and I have this pseudo role where I'm an analyst, but
[00:15:03] but I get a pad, you know, it's X million dollar pad and they say, "Go." Cuz they know they know I've done well for them and I I had a good track record in my career just doing event-driven. So, this is this is like the whole story of my transition from analyst to trader. And I told this story to somebody there else the other day. Analysts think they're really smart, right? Mhm. And the analyst is always very aligned with the portfolio manager, of course. You know, they have the same goals. But I didn't realize at the time,
[00:15:35] um even though I had worked hand-in-hand with all my PMs as an analyst, man, it is a different job. It's a completely, completely different job because you're an idea guy as an analyst, but the trader, the PM has to think about all these things that an analyst really doesn't have to think about. Position sizing, the setup, and we can get into what the setup means, you know, in a little bit. I think it's pretty interesting. I think it's actually very interesting, uh important part of probably the most
[00:16:06] important part of trading. And so now I'm sitting in this seat and I'm thinking I'm really smart and there's nothing to do cuz it's the wait. So there's no there's no corporate actions, right? There's no mergers. There's very few. I could probably count on one hand the amount of corporate action or event-driven situations that are out there, but but because there's so few, they're crowded and they're difficult to make money. So you didn't um you weren't tempted to try to trade
[00:16:36] other strategies while you're waiting either for the firm or maybe did you have your own personal account that you were trading? I I can't even remember. I probably had a PA at the time. But to your point, that's exactly what I did. I said I said to myself, all right, I'm a month into this thing. I'm start I'm starting to look over my shoulder now, right? Cuz I'm not making any money. I'm not losing money, but I'm just like up one unit, down one unit, up one unit, down one unit. You know, I was working on a couple things, sort of like side gig, side projects like momentum trading
[00:17:07] and uh some fundamental stuff. So to your point, you're right. And so now I've got like three or four different strategies I'm running across the pad that I was given. But same thing, up one down or up one down one with every single strategy. I'm still doing the analyst thing. And this was like the pivotal moment that kind of set me on the stage for the probably the next 15 years up until today. I'm sitting on sitting at the desk. I don't remember the ticker, but the Wall Street Journal broke a story about
[00:17:40] XYZ being in in talks to be bought. Boom boom boom, I type the ticker in and boom boom boom, I hit the hot key and whether it's in trading or any anything else in your life, sometimes you react really quick. And then 1 second later you go, "Oh Like what did I just do?" So I get out of the trade as fast as I get into it. And I look up at my P&L and I go, "Oh my god." Like I made more money than I made as an analyst that, you know, that the Canadian bank in about like 20
[00:18:10] seconds. Wow, what what prompted you to um both get in and get out so quickly? Uh what what were you looking for? You know what? I I understand now why I got in it in and out of it. At the time, I don't know. I think I probably just blacked out. I you know, I obviously I knew the stock was going to go up, right? That's XYZ in talks to be bought. And um I just reacted. So so that happens and I'm like I'm like
[00:18:41] I get a little bit of breathing room now, right? I'm like, "All right, I don't have to look over my shoulder." I go back to the three or four strategies I'm running. Again, up one down one up one down one. And then like I don't know, maybe a week or two later, same thing. Now I'm kind of prepared for it. I'm sitting in front of the screen and I'm kind of waiting like a sniper, you know, waiting for something to come. Meanwhile, I'm working on all my other stuff. And then same thing, boom boom boom, in and out. And again, I don't remember what that ticker was either, but strangely the P&L
[00:19:13] was the same. I'll never forget the P&L was the same. And right there I said I'm just going to do this. What What am I What am I wasting my time doing all this other stuff for? And that kind of set the stage for what I do now. I mean I I don't I don't trade that exact way now because a lot has changed, technology's changed. You know, these guys have black box API, co-locate front running stuff on all these, you know, uh headlines that come across the tape
[00:19:45] now, but that So, you're saying the market was uh less efficient back then? It was It was much less efficient. Now, you still I mean I I've always been very very diligent about case studying every trade that I do, especially when it comes to news. I categorize things, you know, size, time of day, uh thoughts at that moment, you know, was it a fast trade, was it a my idea trade. But back then again, this is late 2000s
[00:20:16] there were no black box uh machines on the headlines. Now, there I wouldn't even try now because you just get whipped. Um but you had Sounds fast, but you had about 2 to 3 seconds to react to stuff on the tape back then because they weren't black boxed like they are now. Mhm. And that lasted a while. And again, there's a lot of nuance to what I do now, and we can get into all that with merger arb and event driven uh still, but it generally
[00:20:48] that's kind of the same thing that I'm that I'm doing now, except I'm not trading like those headlines. Just to wrap up the uh the history here. So, I do that at First New York. Um I spin out into like a First New York related family office. I do that for a couple of And then I realize, you know, I don't need I don't need 25 or 50 bucks to do what I do because I'm in and out of stuff so fast. I don't need a huge portfolio. In fact, I typically don't even run positions overnight. And again, we can
[00:21:19] talk about why I'm not a really a believer in in doing that or anyway, it's not my style. And then about 10 years ago, I just decided to go out on my own and keep it all, so to speak. So when you say you're going on your own and keep it all, meaning you're trading just your own account or what what does that mean? Exactly. Yeah, so, you know, when you when you get hired away at a prop trading firm, they give you the capital and then you have some sort of a payout. Again, I think some of these guys, they either don't want to run their own money
[00:21:50] because they don't have the confidence to do it or somebody's just not worth 50 million or 100 million dollars and they want to take firm's capital and then the trade-off to that is you have to give the, you know, the firm X percent P&L. But for what I do, I can run my business on just a couple of bucks. Like I don't need I don't need that big capital that I would need to go to like a First New York or whatever because I'm in and out of fast. But how often do these trades actually show up? Um, how long do you typically have to wait um before something pops up on the screen?
[00:22:23] That's another really good question cuz I'm in this like I'm in like this two-week lull that we we briefly talked about earlier. I don't really experience like a typical drawdown like a lot of traders do, but like a drawdown for me is going like the last two weeks where there's just not a lot to do. So I could I could go three days without trading a single share in anything. And you know, I just have to be
[00:22:54] uh I just have to be ready for these things to come. So, yeah, maybe there's a I mean, there's a trade every day, of course, right? Sometimes you realize in hindsight what the trade was. But when you say there's a trade every day, uh but is that directly tied to your strategy of uh event-driven arbitrage type activity or Yeah, like, you know, like there's always um So, just to take a step back real quick, what I do now is kind of in the same universe of of of
[00:23:24] what I explained before, but, you know, merger arb is uh deals announced and you know, there's a spread usually relative to the the deal price because of various factors or whatever. So, at any one moment, there's 75 to 100 announced deals and I keep track of every single one of them and I know, you know, who the buyer is, what the price is, you know, what antitrust approvals are needed, when the company said they're going to close the deal,
[00:23:55] uh where they're incorporated. I mean, there's so much nuance to that. And then secondarily, I also keep track of all of the um I guess you could These are really considered more event-driven. So, stuff that hasn't come to fruition yet. So, a good example that would be the Wall Street Journal, like I said, breaking a story about XYZ being in talks by private equity. Naturally, that stock is going to gap higher, right, from that from that time period. But sometimes you get a week, 2 weeks, 2 months, even a couple of quarters before a
[00:24:26] deal's actually announced. So, in the meantime, that stock is gyrating around based on expectations and based on, you know, what the fair value is, based on where comps are going and and so, there's there's all this there's all this new news coming out on every merger arb deal that's announced and also all the event-driven deals that are announced. So, what I do now is I pretty much I'm like very, very up to speed on all of these situations. I mean, there's probably a
[00:24:57] couple hundred of them. But, there's probably 30 or 40 that I'm like really dialed into. And as news comes out, uh I'm able to react um because I'm already up to speed. Right? What does that mean? What What does that mean to be up to speed? Are do you look at the fundamental analysis of the company that's being bought and their offer price and figure out, "Okay, well, based on this, it should have a at least a 10, 20, 30% run uh at a minimum." Um and you do you shoot for
[00:25:31] that kind of higher end range or are you happy with just scalping a few percentage points here and there in just seconds? I could probably explain it better if I give you an example. So, I won't There's no point in me naming it naming tickers, but Reuters, for example, broke a story on XYZ a couple weeks ago about them being in talks with private equity. Right? So, the stock gaps higher and it's been a couple weeks. The stock's starting to trail off a little bit. I don't believe in I think it's too
[00:26:02] difficult to take a position in that stock now. I mean, I have a rough idea uh yeah, it's going to go down, you know, 8 to 10% if the new headline that comes out says the talks are off, for example. And because I don't There's no edge in that. Everyone Everyone has all the information. Everybody's already processed all that information. But, I also know that I also know that that stock is probably going to go down about 8 or 10% because I'm following it. Because I follow I
[00:26:33] watch where it came from. I index everything relative to the comps, right? So, if the comps are up a lot and this thing is starting to fade off, maybe it's actually trading near fair value because you've had that drift higher with all the other comps, if that makes any sense. So, uh if I was an analyst, maybe I'd actually recommend that to a PM. Like, "Hey, there's only three or four or five percent downside in this, and we don't know what the upside is cuz the you know, the deal could be at a 20 or 30% premium to where it is now. That's more of a PM
[00:27:04] bet. But again, because I'm so up to speed uh on all of the situations, I know that if XYZ gets uh some antitrust approval, I have an idea roughly where it's going to it's going to gap up, right? If that antitrust approval's not expected, but I also you know, I know where the deal price is. I know the other antitrust approvals that are that are coming. Today, in fact, there was a company that uh received antitrust approval in the EU some pharma deal that I'm
[00:27:36] following. And you know, the stock gap higher on that headline. Uh I did not short it cuz it didn't get high enough, but it did gap higher, but I also knew that that was already expected because uh I don't know, Wall Street Journal or Bloomberg ran a story two weeks ago that says the EU approval's coming. So, what I'll do is if that got too high, I might fade that stock because I already knew that that was already coming, and I also know that they still need Hart-Scott-Rodino in the United
[00:28:06] States. That's the big one that they need. Just as an example, if that makes any sense. So, it but if you're not up to speed on these situations, maybe you chase that stock higher cuz all you see is approval. Like, what does that mean? Approval's positive, but like but how positive? And what's left? And what's needed? I see. So, you're doing you're doing a lot of research, right? Before these news events are finally released and confirmed, and you have a very good idea on potential upside, caveats because
[00:28:40] you're you're dialed into the nuances of each deal. E- Exactly. That's exactly right. Another good example would be um um if some you know, tier two activist bid for a you know, some dog REIT company that's a billion market cap. Let's just say the price Let's just say on Monday they raised the bid by a dollar. Or they raised the bid from you know, from 14 to 15. I already know that that first of all, I know that tier two
[00:29:11] activist firm is a lousy firm that doesn't want to buy the stock anyway. And I also know that the company's incorporated in Maryland. And you know, that's just a small nuance like it a good event-driven trader knows that Maryland or Pennsylvania incorporation just just as an example means the company if they bid $100, the company could say go away and there's like no shareholder rights. Not like when they're incorporated in Delaware. So if somebody takes that stock too high, I'll sell it to them all day cuz I know
[00:29:41] when the dust settles, whether it's in 30 seconds or 3 minutes or 30 minutes, everyone's going to go, "Oh crap, why did I buy that thing?" You know, cuz now it takes them like 5 minutes, 10 minutes, 20 minutes for them to get up to speed to what I'm already up to speed on. Does that make sense? Mhm. Mhm. So are you looking at uh also the technicals or is it strictly you kind of know where your target prices is and you know what prices are considered overbought and uh you make your trades just based on that? Yeah, you know, I've looked at charts for like
[00:30:12] 20, 25 years and I can't make any looking at charts for the life of me. Um the only time I'll look at a chart is is intraday. I mean, I do look at I look at all charts actually just to kind of see where things are coming from and going. But if a if I have a chance to buy something because I find a piece of news before everybody else, the most important chart for me is the intraday chart. Like I want to know if it's moved yet. Because by definition, if somebody sends
[00:30:43] me a chat or a or I see something in Twitter or whatever, by definition to me it's old. And you know, sometimes I have a time stop in what I do too because let's just say I find something buried in a new story or buried in a filing. Actually, this happened a couple days ago. I was on a conference call and I listen to tons of conference calls every day that are either on the event-driven list or the merger arb list, or sometimes I just listen to the
[00:31:14] conference calls of like the huge OEX very thick liquid names because um there's more liquidity obviously. So Intel um Intel's got some event-driven stuff going on with it right now. CEO change, there's some activists there. But on the call, they reiterated their guidance that they gave 2 months ago. And I kind of wasn't looking for that news, but I heard it on the on the conference on the webcast
[00:31:45] and I quickly pulled up the quote. It hadn't moved yet. So I bought a bunch. Thinking and maybe I could scalp a little bit here, or maybe it just runs because maybe everyone was expecting them to guide down. I wasn't really up to speed on the situation as much as I am on the event-driven merger arb stuff. But what's the downside buying this thing on the offer? Literally it hadn't moved. Now Bloomberg ran that story probably a minute later cuz somebody on Bloomberg was on the call also. The stock ticked up like a nickel or a
[00:32:15] dime or something like that. And it it didn't go anywhere. So I got out of it. I probably scratched on the trade. The reason I bring that up is because once the world information's free and it's so ubiquitous, right? I mean I pay a fortune for my Bloomberg and all this other stuff, but if you're following the right I don't know, Twitter handles or whatever, you can pretty much have the same information. Like my grandmother has the same information 30 seconds after I do. And my opinion is, once it's on the tape
[00:32:49] and you give it a few seconds or a few minutes, it's priced in. Right? Maybe you get a big shareholder that's off the desk and changes his mind on on some piece of news, but it's almost as if I flip an hourglass over, once a couple of minutes goes by on event-driven news that hits the tape, there's nothing to do. Like now there's no more edge. Does that make sense? Yeah, yeah. So, how do you know, like um for event-driven situations that are not directly tied to, say, a buyout offer
[00:33:21] with a specific price, say all other events, how do you know what how much upside the stock would have to, like say the CEO changes? I mean, how do you know the stock would necessarily move? Anyway, and do you do you have a target? Or do you do you have Is it based on hunch? That That's a great question because um if I'm not up to speed on something, I think it's really hard to trade. I actually saved two examples from today
[00:33:51] just in case you asked me that question. There was a headline that came out that says Apple prepares 3-year modem rollout to in a bid to outdo Qualcomm. So, obviously negative for Qualcomm, right? Now, a machine sold that instantaneously because there's some Yeah, there's probably like some negative tag on There's like a negative tag on Bloomberg. So, I'm not going to beat the machines. I didn't trade that because number one, I'm not up to speed.
[00:34:22] Qualcomm gapped down maybe a percent and a half, 2%, which is pretty big for a a mega-cap company, right? But I wouldn't dare buy I wouldn't dare try to catch that and buy it because you know, there are guys that understand Qualcomm or Corvo or whatever the other ticker that was in that. They really understand. Like typically what I'll do is I'll go to the Bloomberg and I'll say like, "Oh, you know, what's the percentage revenue from Corvo from Apple?" And let's just say it's 10%. I don't It would take me like an hour to get up to
[00:34:55] speed versus the guys that know the space cold. Like I know event-driven and merger arb. So, it's kind of a left and whether it's a new trader listening to this or medium, you know, time trader that's that's listening to this. You got to figure out where you have an edge because I'm so out-edged trading something like that that for me, like if I tried to catch that stock, Qualcomm or Corvo,
[00:35:25] and lost money on it, I'd like never I wouldn't forgive myself all weekend cuz I'm like, "What the hell was I doing trading that stock? I have no edge." So, that's the hard part with what I do because sometimes I have to go days, like I said, days without trading. Mhm. But uh I think Qualcomm actually rebounded. But it's not I wouldn't even consider it a miss because again, Qualcomm could have tanked 10% on that. If that was some new piece of news that it would have taken me so long to get up
[00:35:56] to speed on, and maybe somebody really, really knows the situation and is just selling it all day to all the suckers that are like, "Oh, this is probably not a big deal." You see what I'm saying? Mhm. Yeah, yeah. So, so do you do you concentrate on a certain basket of stocks or sectors that you get to know really well, uh and then if you see an event-driven news uh release on a stock or company that you're not so accustomed to, do you just pretty much ignore it or do you do you try to learn from the event and eventually incorporate it into
[00:36:26] your other uh group of stocks that you know. The latter. That's a good question. Yeah, like, you know, again, if there's a Wall Street Journal headline and a stock gaps up from the machines on a new situation, you know, XYZ in talks with private equity, just for example. I'm not going to chase that cuz it's going to go up 12%, 8%, 4%. I I've no idea. But what that will do is now that will go on my list.
[00:36:57] And then I'll Now I'll start keeping track of it. Now I'll do like a little bit of reading on it. I'll under I'll try to understand the setup and where what's priced in, what people are expecting. I never pay attention to what analysts say cuz I think they're worthless, but if there's a couple of analysts out there that make some interesting point, like, oh, they've got all this real estate that's worth some, you know, big percentage of the market cap, I kind of note that, but I'll never I mean, every day, you know, there's a
[00:37:29] there's a buyout story and then the analysts all opine and all, I think it could be taken out for X 20. But why is that? You You You used to be an analyst yourself. Wouldn't you want to trust your fellow analysts' opinions? That's excellent question. I'll get back to what I said before. Analysts I'll get back to that Michael Platt quote from Market Wizards. He says, "Analysts only think about how smart they are." And it's so true. Uh I don't know. Analysts have a role with
[00:38:00] getting people up to speed on what a company does, but when it comes to price targets and and, you know, picking direction, they're they're not good at It's just not what they do. Or what, you know, they think they can do it, but but um yeah, I'll never I will never ever cuz I've I've watched for 15, 20 years those guys say, "I think it could be taken out at 25 and then they take out 17 or they say I think it could be taken out 25 and you're shorting it and then it gets to taken out of 40.
[00:38:30] There's just and I've and I've put all this into zeros and ones. You know, I I wasted my time a couple years ago doing this. And there's just no statistical significance to what they say. That um again it would have to be like a unique like them pointing out like oh, by the way, there's an FDA thing coming out in 30 days on this biotech deal for example. That's that's something for me to note. But I won't but I won't trade it. But yeah, to your point I just try to get up
[00:39:01] to speed as much as I as much as I can. And if not, then it might go on my list to get up to speed for the next headline or the next approval or for the next whatever it is. Cuz then I feel like I have an edge. Cuz Mhm. Mhm. trading obviously. Uh do you have any hard rules to keep you from getting into trouble? Yeah, yeah, somebody asked me that question. They said they said what's your risk management? Mhm. The trading so fast like this.
[00:39:32] And we could talk about this macro thing that's sort of a side gig. That's very different cuz that's more intermediate term. So you have to think about position sizing and volatility and how much you're going to risk. But I mean I have like a I have like a dollar amount P&L, but these things happen so fast that I don't have I don't even have the chance to like say all right, I'm going to risk, you know, 1% of my equity and I'm going to size it according to this. For me it's like I'm either early or I'm not or I have an
[00:40:04] edge or I'm not or or I don't rather. But yeah, there's there's like a rough P&L thing that I have in my head where if I hit that I just got to get out cuz I've seen too many times I get to that level and I give it like a little bit more room. And then, you know, then it's 3x that. It'll never blow me up, but it won't feel good. Let's talk about your intermediate strategy that you said you're working on.
[00:40:34] Yeah, so I think I just started this thing out of curiosity. Maybe it's cuz I'm getting older and maybe because I realized that this fast stuff's just getting harder. Even though I still think that I have an edge doing that, I I think I don't think a I don't think a machine learning black box can, not yet anyway, can like get up to speed on the setup, right, and the dynamics of all the stuff that's in my head. Eventually, it will happen, but so
[00:41:06] maybe like 18 months ago, I said, you know what, why don't I try to come up with like an intermediate term strategy that's very scalable. Maybe something I could do as a I don't know, side gig for my retirement account, maybe for maybe I can go to a, you know, a place to get capital one day or whatever, but it's in macro. What's interesting is it's like a totally new world for me. I almost feel like I'm 22 years old again because it's just so different than the way I trade now. Like I don't have to think about position
[00:41:36] sizing now. I don't have to think about volatility now. I don't have to think about all these things that you have to do when you're going to trade intermediate term. So, what I do is I look at just kind of inspired by uh maybe you had a maybe you had him on as a guest, Jason Shapiro. Yes. And uh and he, you know, I I listened to a podcast, maybe it was on your on your podcast, and he just started talking about positioning and the setup. And I thought about all the things that blew up,
[00:42:08] all the people around me over the course of 15, 20 years, and it was pretty much because they either didn't have good risk management or they didn't really understand the setup. And what I mean by the setup is what's expect like what's priced in. Kind of like what I do with the event driven stuff, right? So, I went down that rabbit hole looking at the CFTC positioning data that comes out weekly. And I'm trying to develop this system that looks at that to try to figure out
[00:42:39] basically where people are offsides. And I look at the equity markets, the treasury markets, FX, uh metals, energy, grains, like you know, the softs, all that stuff. And it's a totally different exercise for me because it's like I got to think like a PM, not a trader. How much am I going to risk? What's the volatility? You know, what's the setup? How am I going to get in? Why am I going to get in? When am I going to get out? Why am I going to get out? So, that's been
[00:43:10] I guess like an obsession the last 18 months for me. I've really been trying to sit down, but it's it's just it's very hard because Um what is what is offsides trading? Like could you go into detail? Like what do you look for? Define Yeah. I trade in that. Yeah, so the the the thing that Jason said to me or said not to me, he said on on your podcast was it's so obvious, but I don't think a lot of people look at it. He tries to identify if people are
[00:43:43] very long something or very short something. So, you could listen to people talk about what they think about gold. But what matters more? Like it matters more where people are actually positioned. And it's hard to get that information with stocks, but you can get that information with futures data through the CFTC data that comes out on a weekly basis. So, again, I kind of went down this rabbit hole and I started looking at the data and I created basically like a it's like a histogram with an oscillator
[00:44:15] to determine over some lookback period uh how full somebody is long or how short they are, you know, relative to the last lookback period. And I'm trying to incorporate that um with some technicals and with some discretion. So, I'll give you an we can talk about like a quick example. Like if you go back a handful of months, everybody knows about the yen on one trade, right? Mhm. Mhm. Back last August. Yeah, exactly. So, that So, the yen was just down, down, down, down, down forever.
[00:44:45] And if you started looking at the CFTC positioning data it got to the it got to these short levels that we hadn't seen in a very, very long time. So, it was almost like it was very wound up. Right? So, all you needed was I mean, every time there'd be a whiff of intervention, the market would rally and then it would they would sell it right away. But you knew there was going to be that level. It's like GameStop. Like everybody's just shorted it doesn't matter what the fundamentals are. It's a stock. Like it went
[00:45:18] to the moon, right? And why is that? Because it was just short shorting it, covering it higher, shorting it, covering it higher, shorting it. So, the same thing happened to the yen and the same thing can happen across all of these other markets. And I try to identify setups where people are just like I said, like they I consider them to be offsides long or offsides short. So, yes, I've really been like I've been obsessing about that for the last 18 months and I I feel like I'm back in
[00:45:48] my first New York days. Up one unit, down one unit, up one unit, but but they, you know, a good friend of mine says yes, you have to stay curious about not only your bread and butter, what you're doing, cuz if you don't adapt, you'll die, right? You know, have to always be thinking about, you know, maybe one or two other strategies. In fact, the dude that you had on a couple days ago, what does he run, like 55 strategies or something crazy like that? Yeah, exactly. Um so, he's doing pretty much what the pod shops have figured out about doing, right? You do a bunch of
[00:46:20] non-correlated stuff and Mhm. compound some extra return over time. But, yeah, that's kind of the gist of the positioning. So, how how do you determine when I mean, cuz cuz uh these being offsides, uh being overly long or overly short can last for a very long time. What kind of catalyst do you look for uh for the trigger point that causes a reversal? And then, do you you wait for that to take a position or like Yeah, that's a good question because you're
[00:46:50] right, things can stay offsides for a long time. Nvidia can stay offsides long for, you know, or GameStop can be offsides for for some extended period of time. So, I'm trying to develop like a like a couple of technical algorithms to wake me up to get into these things. But, I think the best thing is kind of what Jason does. He waits for like some sort of market confirmation. He calls it like a news failure. You know, I guess it's when I don't remember what the catalyst for
[00:47:20] the yen thing was, but like if everybody's offside short and you get bad news and the yen tanks, but then rallies and you know, cover you know, closes unchanged or covers or closes higher on the day, you're you can pretty much be like, all right, everybody's dead. You know, everybody's going to have to start to cover. So, um the problem with the market news confirmation thing is you don't get as many reps as I'd like and I'm, you know, like I really want to get enough zeros and ones in a spreadsheet to be able to really
[00:47:51] uh live test this thing to figure it out. So, I'm kind of leaning towards a couple of technical things that I've built, but yes, to to long way to answer your question, you absolutely need some other form of go signal because you could have been short gold as it goes higher and higher and higher cuz it was offside long long long long long for a really long time. So since your trades don't come by very often, do you put on a big size
[00:48:22] big position size to make up for that? It it always depends, right? Like if you know, there's a couple of deals I'm waiting for like a final antitrust approval. And you know, if I can dig that out of a filing or dig that out from a story or even if the headline hits but the stock is you know, not trading at the price yet. I pretty much go until my machine stops because I have you know,
[00:48:53] 98% confidence level that because from experience and from the models and everything that I build I kind of have a a very strong opinion on where that's going to trade. So yeah, if I get a chance to do to get really big in something, I will. Yeah. Or if I you know, again, if if something hasn't moved like Intel, you know, it's a super liquid stock. I mean, I could get it I could get out you know, down a penny or down two pennies through the bid, right? So again, the the decision
[00:49:24] that's made is usually a very quick one. But if it's like a really thin stock, you know, I'll try to go I'll try to be careful, but but again, it could be thin it could be a thin stock trading at 10 that you know, I have high confidence is going to go to 14. I'll get really big at 12. You know, if I think it's even if it's even if it's thin because I know when the dust when the dust settles in 30 seconds, 3 minutes, 30 minutes I know the arbs are going to come in and supersize. I have a I have a good
[00:49:54] example for you if you want from the other day. Yes, please. So, it was early in the morning. Wall Street Journal broke a story on XYZ. It was some dog 300 million market cap company closed at $1.60. And the company the the Wall Street Journal said that they're going to get bought for $3.15. Naturally, it's going to trade higher, right? I missed that the first, you know, blade cuz it was uh early in the morning or maybe I'm
[00:50:24] drinking my coffee or whatever. I know that the Wall Street Journal is really good at what they do. It's not one of these other trade rags that's going to be like maybe it's iffy. And the story pretty much says that the press release is coming, right? So, all the guys that were sitting with their fingers on the keyboard, they're buying stock at 170, 180, 190. This happens like in a couple seconds. Then the press release hit. And I start buying stock at probably 220,
[00:50:54] 230, 240. Now, all the guys that bought 160, 70, 80, they're not merger arb guys. Maybe they are, but usually they're probably not. They're probably just some home gamers sitting around or maybe it's an event-driven guy. Uh or maybe it's a guy that uh trades Nvidia, but he's like in front of the screen for that headline. Um I'm able to very quickly determine with pretty high confidence where something is going to trade when there's a merger deal a merger arb deal announced. Now, there's so much nuance. It's not
[00:51:25] like every deal trades at the same spread and the same annualized spread and the same implied probability cuz there's again, there's nuance to it. But the guys that bought all that 170, 180, they're happy to sell to me for 240, 250, 260 cuz they just made X percent in a minute, but I know that that stock's going to be 300 on bid for a half a million shares in about 10 minutes. Because the real arbs uh are going to take that thing to something in the low threes cuz they're
[00:51:55] just going to buy it uh because of the annualized spread. Right. I see. Why would the Why would the real arbs wait uh that amount of time to get in? Uh why do they come in after everyone else? So So that's a good question, too. They won't wait. But you know, if you run a billion-dollar arb book or half a million dollar or half a billion-dollar arb book, you're not trying to scalp around making 10 or 20 grand like I am, right? They want to really, you know, they they might act fast, but they're going to
[00:52:25] you know, look at the press release, read it in full, understand what their business is, understand if there's antitrust. Now, I'm doing all that stuff very quickly. I'm getting up to speed very quickly. But, you know, it takes uh it takes some time for them to lean over to their trader and say like, all right, we're going to put some of this on. We're going to buy a million at three, you know, three or better. So, when you're so big, it takes time to make that decision to commit. Well, this this would only be a $3 million
[00:52:55] position, but you get what I'm saying. Like, if a merger arb fund is going to put 25 or 50 or 100 bucks into some deal, they got to they're not going to just hot key it. You know what I mean? Mhm. You know, there was another one a couple of days ago that I missed. And, you know, I tried to buy it at some price. And, you know, the the arb guys, like the big arb guys, they just they moved faster than I thought they would, so I missed the trade. But, back to the original example, you know, I'm buying anything I
[00:53:26] can at 260, 270, 275 because again, I know know in air quotes, but like I know this thing's going to be three, whatever bid for size in about 10, 15 minutes. Um I caution anybody doing this because there's so much nuance. You know, I've I've done this before when I'm not up to speed enough on something or uh maybe a page one shareholder is like, "Oh, there's big antitrust stuff here."
[00:53:57] And they've got some FDA thing coming out before the deal closes, so there's big gap risk. So, again, it's not like all all these things traded like the same spread, right? But this just comes from experience. I mean, I've been doing it, you know, I've been really looking at event driven, you know, over 15 years. I've been trading this for over a decade. Um and I'm not always right, you know, but I but I try to move fast. The only rub with what I do is it's not very scalable, right?
[00:54:27] Um What does that mean? At least it's not scalable at good prices is what I mean. So, I could run a merger arb book and, you know, buy a million shares of that at three, but what what can does that get me if I think it's going to trade at three? But if I can buy, you know, X shares all the way up to three because I'm just me, I'm a little guy, and I, you know, keeping all the P&L, then that then that works. I can make a living doing it. Throughout your years doing this, was it possible for you to develop uh like
[00:54:59] consistency over time or is there such variability in these different events with so many different uh factors? Was it challenging or were you able to uh achieve a a consistency over time? Yeah, you know, knock wood, I I've always been really consistent at what I'm doing. And like I said, my my quote-unquote drawdowns are really like lack of lack of quantity of stuff to do. Mhm. So, like I'm in one of those right
[00:55:30] now. It's December 6th. Kind of since Thanksgiving, there really hasn't been a whole lot to do for me. Um so it's tough to like sit in front of the screen and not start trading spiders cuz it's 2:00 and I haven't done anything. You know what I mean? That's always uh that's always a recipe for disaster. But yeah, overall I've been very fortunate. I mean, I work my ass off. I'm up 3:45 every morning. You know, preparing and watching the tape and doing all that stuff, but um yeah, it's been a pretty
[00:56:01] smooth ride. I mean, the only time I start looking over my shoulder, so to speak, and kind of looking at myself, but is just, you know, if I go through these periods where there's just not a whole lot to do. Um those can get difficult mentally. You know what I mean? Kind of like when somebody just has a drawdown. Like a vanilla guy that's, you know, up five units, down four units, up five units, down seven units, down eight units, you know, um that's kind of my drawdown.
[00:56:32] Are there any types of markets which are super offsides short or super offsides long at this time? Yeah, there's always stuff offside. Anything I say won't age well at all. Uh because Let's say in an extreme in an extreme fashion. Sort of like a Japa- Are there any Japanese yen equivalents? Yeah, so I won't even talk about the equities because the equities have just shown offsides long for a really long time, so forget that.
[00:57:02] But like right now, on December 6th, 2024, some of these G10 currencies are really offside short, the euro, the pound, uh the New Zealand dollar uh are really offside short. Mexican peso, not a G10, but that's that's been very offside short. We have a like a lot of these Trump tariff headlines going on, and there's going to be a lot of movement from now, you know, now until the uh inauguration. Some of the metals, believe it or not, are actually offside short, silver, and copper.
[00:57:33] What else here? And nobody's going to trade live cattle and lean hogs, even though I do, but they they're all they're pretty quite long uh at this moment, but I do like a free you know, I was doing like a weekly deck for myself a few months back and I was sending it to a couple of guys that I know trade macro and they really liked it. So, it was kind of annoying to have 50 Excel uh PowerPoint files on my uh desktop, so I ended up doing like a free Substack
[00:58:03] thing. Just I didn't think anybody was going to read it but me. Um but there's a couple of guys on there now, so I do like a weekly It's not event driven at all, but it's it's all on macro and positioning. But uh yeah, I usually do it like on Sundays. I'll fire that out for the week and and again, everyone has to have like their own process, right? If you learn anything from the Market Wizards books, you know, it's not you know, it's you got to have something that fits your personality cuz you can never trade like anybody else. You know, I just figured if you know, there's a
[00:58:34] couple of macro guys out there that value looking at positioning, so if they can use it to their process, great. And I'm still trying to work on figuring out how to turn this into some green. Yeah, yeah. Well, great. Uh so, to wrap things up, uh what do you struggle with most as a trader? It's these It's these lull periods uh of like I said before of not having anything to do because you know, this happens a lot and I try to remind myself that it happens a lot, but you know, if I go another week or two
[00:59:05] without trading anything, I start to doubt, "Oh man, maybe it's over." You know, I or I'll complain to my wife and she says, "Yeah, that's the 497th time you said that." Um that's the thing that I struggle with the most and then this positioning thing has driven me crazy because it's I'm so used to having an edge and what I trade event driven. And I've you know, and I like I have the P&L to support that. But with this macro thing, it's hard cuz
[00:59:37] you're you know, the typical holding period on my system is one two to three weeks. And everybody's got the data. Right? Everybody has the data on the euro and wheat and soybeans and the 10-year Treasury. So, it's really really hard. Uh so, I'm really struggling with that right now. But it's uh it's all good. You got to stay curious, right? Yeah, yeah, yeah. Um so, I understand you also on the side are a volunteer
[01:00:08] firefighter. I am, yeah. It's uh it's something I started when I was in my mid-30s when I lived in New Jersey and I kind of feel like I maybe missed my calling joining the military. And I'm driving past the firehouse that I drove past my entire life and I turned to my wife and I said, "Should I join the fire department?" She said, "Yeah, why wouldn't you?" So, um pretty cool journey there. Yeah, you know, it took me like nine months to go through the training. You do the same training that a career fireman would
[01:00:38] have to go through. Um just met so many great people along the way and luckily all my shirts transferred down to South South Charlotte. So, I'm a volunteer fireman uh also in in South Charlotte, but they're just great great people and I always think it's important to do something to give back to the community. Yeah, well, thank you for your service. Well, Rick, uh want to thank you for coming on Chat With Traders. I had a lot of fun. I appreciate you. Yeah, fantastic. And how can our listeners reach you?
[01:01:09] Oh, sure. So, my um I've alluded to the tape quite a bit when when talking about this. I I started a Substack called Off The Tape. It's got underscores off underscore the underscore tape. And uh my email's on there like all over the place. So, if anybody wants to reach out and I I encourage people to reach out to me, too, cuz it's been fun. I've had people brand new to the business reach out. I've had people been in the business even longer than I have reach out. So, I always like hearing about people's process and what they do and it's uh it's a lot of fun.
[01:01:43] You've reached the end of this episode of Chat With Traders, but rest assured there are more episodes loaded with real market insight and zero hype on the way soon. So, to stay updated with each great new release, subscribe to the podcast in iTunes. And we'd love it if you'd leave a rating and review. We'll catch you next time on Chat With Traders.
