# 295 · Steve Ruffley - Animal Speed, Size, and Being Right at the Right Time
# source: YouTube auto-captions (en-orig) https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=CpWJ2Zn2GvM

[00:00:01] You can't focus too much on what you don't and never may understand. Yeah, lots of things are going to be said, lots of things are going to happen, but is that going to make you money? Not necessarily. You know, that there's lots of things happening in the world and there's lots of things happening throughout trading and I've seen it trade, you know, change in front of my very eyes. You know, so I've seen the media and it it its attitude, how it presents data change. Everything you see, no, doesn't have to necessarily be taken a pinch of salt, but it's not necessarily there to make you money. So, the best thing you can do as a as a trader or retail trader is kind of fade
[00:00:33] out a little bit of this news. You know, look at the screens. What are the markets telling you? How are they moving? Don't get too pigeonholed into listening that some hedge fund manager is going to tell you what the next big stock is going to be because they're all out there to make money. You know, this is a it's a tough, hard game. It's like I said, you know, back on the floor, no trader is going to tell you exactly what they do because that's their edge. So, be very kind of wary about what you're being told and expecting it to give you instant results because they don't. You know, the biggest things that are going to kind of move the markets are the
[00:01:03] unexpected things, but there are so few unexpected things because of that underlying narrative. And the big thing that will come, you'll probably miss it because it'll be so big and so quick, you haven't had time to prepare. Markets, speculation, and risk. This is the Chat With Traders Podcast. Yeah, we're back in Chat With Traders. Thank you, all of you, listening from all over the world. That's just so cool.
[00:01:34] This is episode 295. I'm Tessa Dao and my co-host is Ian Cox and we're hoping that you're doing great in every way. Now, I would love to get you straight to Ian's interview with our next guest today. His name is Steve Ruffley. He trained as a professional and now defines himself as a pro retail trader. He's now spent nearly half his life honing his craft in the market spending a couple of decades making the largest amount of money that he can from the least amount of time
[00:02:04] spent day trading such as achieving five-figure gains in a couple minutes. Steve trades big size with three trade types and two entry styles, which we'll hear more about as we get into the chat. Having been a trader from the trading floor in a highly competitive environment to then switching over to trading as a retail trader a professional retail trader makes it a very interesting perspective. Steve's entrance into trading wasn't planned. It was a mix of ambition, timing, and the right connections. Leaving university
[00:02:35] early, he took a finance job moving to Gibraltar in the southern tip of Spain, where he met traders running a new trading floor. Intrigued, he joined their intense graduate program enduring the six weeks of brutal tests where failure meant dismissal. The trading floor itself was an adrenaline-fueled world, rows of screens, high-stakes trades, and the culture of both camaraderie and competition. Definitely, this experience had to have shaped his trading mindset, philosophy,
[00:03:06] and technique where risk is not a dirty word and size and speed are essential. Steve's also a trading mentor and author of his latest book called The Pro Retail Trader. By the way, this wasn't planned, but we included a little bonus snippet of a short conversation with Steve after the interview for those interested in hanging around just for a couple minutes more. So, without further ado, ladies and gentlemen, we are so pleased to present Steve Ruffley, currently based in New Zealand.
[00:03:39] Well, Steve, I'd like to welcome you to Chat With Traders. Thank you very much. Well, where are you now and where did you grow up? Uh well, I'm now in New Zealand, but as far away from where I grew up, which is Bolton in the north of England. You may or may not have heard of it. Uh-huh. And and so so tell us about your kind of growing up in in Bolton and kind of how did you first get interested in in the financial markets? Sure. Okay. Um yeah, I mean, a fairly typical upbringing in Bolton. It's the biggest town in Europe. It can't be
[00:04:11] a a city cuz something that happened in the past. I don't know. I wasn't really kind of big into history at school. But basically, my kind of route into to finance, I guess, was I went to university for a couple of weeks to study uh economics and I wasn't particularly interested or particularly connecting to uh what was being said and I I spoke to the lecturer at the time and he basically said, "Well, you're never going to get a good job. You'll never do anything without a degree." Well, I kind of left and to prove him wrong, my first job was for a Price
[00:04:42] Waterhouse Coopers as as a graduate. Funnily enough. And uh I was basically started placing investments for high-net-worth individuals. So, that's how I got to know a little bit about the finance world. And yeah, that kind of piqued my interest. From there, really, um again, bizarrely as my life does, I had the opportunity to live in Gibraltar, which is the southern tip of Spain. And I was in Gibraltar for a while and I was down at one of the the ports, Puerto Banús, quite famous down there and uh
[00:05:12] well-known for its its luxury, its yachts, its fancy cars, and I just bumped into these guys and um yeah, I I asked what they did, you know, and after general chat, they said, "Well, we're traders. We've we've started a trading floor in in Gibraltar." I'm like, "Well, that seems like something I could be interested in." So, basically went for an interview and yeah, I was one of the original first Rev Co grads, it turned out to be. And that's really how my trading career started. Uh so, what year was this? Oh, it's going way back. It's probably
[00:05:45] early 2000s. Um yeah, 2004, maybe. Oh, okay. So, this is this is after the dot-com crash as as well. Yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah. It's just before before the trading floors and all that kind of stuff. Yeah, I'm I'm still I'm still relatively you know, kind of newbie, I guess, in in kind of trading terms, you know, 20-odd years, you know, it's not uh not that long, I guess, compared to some other people you've had on the show. And so, what kind of describe for us, what did you first do at this group? Well, it's very interesting, actually, cuz basically, we're all based in
[00:06:16] Gibraltar, so we got sent over as part of a kind of international thing with other people of offices around the world and we all basically camped out in old court in London. We had a big flat. I guess in some ways you could say it was a little bit like The Apprentice. So, we went to Liverpool Street offices every day. There was a lot of intense training and uh you know, kind of tests and you had to kind of you know, prove you could perform under pressure and they said, you know, if you didn't pass milestones, you know, daily, weekly milestones, you were fired. And people
[00:06:47] were. So, it was it was a little bit brutal. So, yeah, we had about six weeks of that and yeah, I passed and then the kind of the the the the prize or the goal of it was to actually be backed by Rev Co and on the floor. So, my first experience of kind of floor trading was when they took us onto the live floor and it was like something I'd never seen. You know, you've got rows and rows of people, you know, guys with eight, 10, 12 screens. This place had its own um deli. It had its own arcade room. Uh it
[00:07:20] was just like an atmosphere I'd never seen. It was you know, for a boy from Bolton, it's pretty unbelievable. So, uh yeah, when you actually get to sit down on your own desk and you're around, you know, you know, some legends. There was Andy Preston sat on my floor back at the time, Braveheart, you know, so some big names, people making huge amounts of money. And um and yeah, so that was that was basically it. That was my introduction to trading and it's it's it seems like a million million million years ago and it's so different to what I do now, obviously, being sat home with my own screens in my own home office. But uh yeah, great
[00:07:50] experience and and something that I'll that that kind of made me not the trader I am because, you know, I I do see a big distinction between the the pro world and, you know, myself as a as a pro retail trader. But it certainly gave you all all the um ambition, should I say, to to follow this through and to see where it could really take you. So, yeah, great time, great experience. So, you sat next to traders on your left and right that were trading and is that right? Absolutely. You were on rows and rows. Um so, yeah, I mean, it was um you know,
[00:08:23] again, it's when you're the newbie just coming in, you know, you don't get to talk to the big guys straight away, but obviously, you know, kind of being on the floor, socializing, you get to know people. Traders like to gossip. Um but everyone kind of quickly knew pretty soon who the big guys were. And it's aspirational, but also, you know, a little bit intimidating. So, yeah, I mean, talking about a baptism of fire, that was uh that that was one way to kind of to to put it. So, did the big guys share any of the trades that they're doing and and was it
[00:08:54] common for uh certain traders to piggyback off of other traders and simply copy or was that even even allowed? I mean, sure. I mean, listen, it it's a bit of a boys' club and it's, you know, a bit of a hierarchy. Um This is the thing, you know, everyone you sit next to somebody and and as a newbie, the first thing you ask is like, "What are you looking at? What are you going to trade?" And these guys have been doing it for years, you know, and they'll share a little bit of information, a little bit of knowledge. You know, traders, you know, they're just blokes, you know, they they love a
[00:09:24] good gossip. But you know, what we talked about was, you know, kind of what the markets was doing and and money. You know, it all came back to money. I know that's a a faux pas thing to talk about money in trading, but that's what we all sat there for. You know, we all sat there, you know, guys were going out in the lunch breaks buying a Rolex when they had a good day. You know, it's not Wolf of Wall Street stuff. You know, that's a whole that's a whole, you know, kind of different side of it. But yeah, there's a lot of guys there that were there to make money and, you know, people that you know, you wouldn't necessarily think of traders. You know, you wouldn't
[00:09:54] be able to spot a trader if you walked past them on the street. You know, you really wouldn't, you know, they're not They just look like normal blokes. And I don't know they were all blokes. I think there was maybe one woman on the floor in the entire time I was on there. So, it was a very male environment, you know, very bravado. And yeah, I mean information was passed around in shirt, but listen, nobody's going to give you the edge. Nobody's going to sit there and tell you what to do. And that was the whole point of the whole kind of graduate course. It's like they will teach you all you
[00:10:24] need to know about maybe charting, all you need to know about um you know, the market structure, products, etc. But they don't tell you how to make money. And that's something I didn't get originally. You know, it's kind of you either have something in you that you can make money or you don't. And they were that brutal. Like if you couldn't make it, you know, you just burn out. You just went away. You didn't make the money. So, it was it was quite interesting I don't know if you call it experiment, you know, or what you call it. It's quite an interesting way of finding, you know, out who could actually do it when it really mattered.
[00:10:55] So, yeah, quite a quite an interesting time. Mhm. Uh why wouldn't they teach you how to make money? I mean, don't they want you all to succeed? Isn't it to their benefit? Don't know. You'd have to ask them. I mean Oh. Then then the then, you know, it's that was what they gave you. And uh you know, it's it's you know, we've give you all I can. We're going to back you. You can have as much size as you want. Um you know, and do it. I mean, it's it's like all these things, you know, it's just a numbers game. People, you know, can press the button to trade, you know, and
[00:11:27] have a multitude of reasons for doing it. You have technicals, you have fundamentals. But it's the guys that press the button that when it counts with the right kind of size when it counts and meets those big numbers. And that's either in you or it isn't. And it's almost when you I have to describe it in the past. You know, when you meet people that have it. You know, you can't describe it in air quotes. But somebody has that something present about them. They trust they've got the confident, but they're not arrogant. Okay? So, that's what that kind of environment brings out. You can either do it or you can't. And some people are born with it, I believe, and
[00:11:59] we've all met those people, I presume. And uh some people have to manufacture it. I don't necessarily think I'm arrogant enough. Really so to say that I was born with it, but I had something. But I had to create my it over time. And yeah, I mean, my only goal was to use as much size as possible. And and to make those big wins. And you know, that that's really, you know, what trading on the floor perspective is all about. Everyone's there to grind to make money day-to-day. But it you know, you have to remember there's such high costs in pro trading that you know, you have to be
[00:12:30] making money, sizable amounts of money all the time. Otherwise, you know, you can work for a year and by the time you paid your tax, you know, you're coming out with nothing. So, it's not something you know, to be taken lightly. And I have to remember as a trader as a pro trader, there's no wage. You don't get paid. So, that's why the whole mentality of the floor traders are. You're there to make money. You're there to use size, trade the opportunities when they arise. You're there to be fastest finger first at the time, you know, back in the day. You know, you're there to listen to the big news events and the big data events. You know, cuz
[00:13:01] that's where you're going to make your money. And listen, every single trader, professional trader I know, has a big win story. Every single one. They've done it when it counted. So, uh they all have a big story to tell on their wins. Um do they share about their losses, too, or Yeah, absolutely. Um generally you see the losses. You know, back in the day it was a different kind of uh vibe. A lot of floor traders had come to the uh the screens. So, you'd see mice computer mice flying across the room,
[00:13:33] people standing up and shouting and swearing. You know, it's a high-pressure environment and that's what they were used to. But yeah, I mean, people were never shy about saying the losses. Um but I mean again, you know, it it's it's communicated through people that trusted each other. It's not like you have to stand up and say I lost yesterday. You know, end of the day the way trading is on the floor and as it was, your own business. You know, you're literally your own business. You're an entity within, you know, the kind of the framework of of of the house. So, um yeah, your business is your business.
[00:14:03] You want to tell people you had a good day, tell them. Maybe you told them about it, tell them. If you don't, you don't. I mean, like most things, you know, it's generally the quiet guy sat in the corner that's trading thousands of lots and not making a sound. It's the people that can control their emotions. But you know, the old guys on the floor and that kind of stuff, you know, they had a lot of emotions. Didn't say they weren't making money. Sometimes they were making money and still angry about it. You know, it's just there's a there's a very there's a very different time back when I started. I think the transition through to more screen trading has led to a different type of trader over the years.
[00:14:34] So, how long were you there? And what were some of the things I mean, how was the process of of learning while you were there? And what were a few key takeaways? You you mentioned size was one of them. Yeah, I mean, size really is is the the ultimate aim. Um you know, but size like leverage like all things is a two-edged sword. So, there there wasn't really a lot of mentoring, a lot of help, a lot of support to be honest. It was just generally who you became friends with. Um I became friends with the risk manager
[00:15:06] and you know, he told me some things. He saw a different side of obviously the other side of what the traders were doing. And you know, you get information where you can. I mean, the end of the day, as I say, you know, it's just the same for any trader. I just did it in a I guess a a kind a more kind of concentrated stint. Everybody likes to think if they know a bit more about technical analysis or they bit know about, you know, the fundamental side. You know, if they just knew a bit more knowledge, then they'd be able to trade. But as as I said before, what you have to learn is the psychology of understanding yourself,
[00:15:37] understanding, you know, what's important to you, you know, what what gives you the confidence and commitment to put that trade on. And everyone starts off with small size. But again, you were discouraged from starting from very small size or even using demo accounts, you know, or simulators that were available because you can't attach that emotion to it. So, really as I say, you're pretty much left to your own devices. And you know, it was down to you to to pick knowledge from other traders where you could or you know, just to kind of sit there, watch price action and just, you know, to kind of test it out. I mean, the the best lesson
[00:16:09] in trading for anybody is the more you trade, the more you know about yourself. Everyone thinks there's some magic formula or you know, some book or some webinar or some course. Uh you know, but to get to that next level of when you can press the button and trade and make money and do that, you know, consistently and you know, have those larger wins and also manage the losses. It's all done through experience. So, it was just a lot of that. It was a lot of that, just screen time. And that was it really, you know, um I got
[00:16:39] to a certain level. And you know, unfortunately it's kind of I'm not from money or anything. It's kind of after a year or so of trading, you're thinking, well, I'm paying my desk fees, you know, I've had like 10,000 pound days. And you know, the end of the you know, the kind of year, you're drawing out a couple of thousand to live off. It's like, well, this is not the kind of life I expected from a trader. So, that was kind of a turning point for me. You have to remember when I started the uh this grad scheme, to be able to buy yourself out of that grad scheme was a quarter of a million pounds. We're
[00:17:10] talking 20 years ago. So, that's that's a sizable amount. You have to make that in order to pay Refco back to then go in a different split or maybe back yourself. So, really after a you know, a year or so of doing this and not, you know, kind of generating enough money to kind of get by and stay in the game, I wasn't being able to draw enough money that made what I saw as my time investment pay. So, I had a talk to the guys and said, you know, this isn't working for me. And they said, well, you know, you get on well with the risk manager. Why don't you work in the risk department and you know, see what that's all about.
[00:17:41] I thought, well, yeah. I mean, I'm still in trading. I'm still on the on the floor as such. And yeah, so I spent just over a year actually in in the kind of risk room. And that's really when I I knew everybody knows about the size element and the money element and what can be made. But when you actually see it in real time, I'm not just talking about one or two traders, you know, you get to see what every trader does in real time. So, instead of you trading screens, you have big screens full of traders P&Ls. And your job is to to manage those P&Ls and to understand
[00:18:12] what the market's doing and you know, where the risk is for the house, where the risk is for the trader. So, when you spend your year or so looking at multiple accounts over anything from a non-farm payrolls to an interest rate decision, you know, you get to see patterns. And really, you know, patterns the more I looked into, you know, kind of you know, I'm a big fan of things like Fibonacci, but that's just one thing. You know, I'm a big fan of seeing patterns in everything. When you see patterns around activity, patterns around movement, patterns around how traders enter and exit trades. I started
[00:18:43] to put together my own framework of what would happen if I was to go back to trading. That was always my ultimate aim. Nobody wants to be a risk manager. It's the most thankless task. So, if I was to go back to trading, that was always my ultimate aim. Nobody wants to be a risk manager. It's the most thankless task. What why is that? And in in what being a risk manager there for a year, learning what you learned, did it make you more conservative about risk or more appreciate risk? No.
[00:19:14] Risk in the professional world, risk in the professional world is not a dirty word. You are there to risk. That is your job to risk. Calculated risk to make money. Retail on the side, you're told all sorts of levels and rules. All completely constricted. Stick to this, stick to that, conserve capital. Okay? In the pro world, you are there to make money. So, all I saw was a load of guys making money. And my experience of risk was, you know, you have to be a fairly, which I am, affable guy. You have to be shouted at. But when you ring somebody
[00:19:45] up, it's never for good news. When you ring somebody up on the floor, it's always for bad news, to be stopped out. The only times traders like you when they knock on the door and politely ask if they can have thousand lot limits in the bond. Just in case something happens, then you're all right. So yeah, the connotation is that the the risk is negative for traders as in the risk department because they will stop them trading to protect their capital, which is a good thing. And that's the thing, you know, retail traders I guess don't necessarily have. You have to be your own risk manager. It's your own money, you can do whatever
[00:20:16] you want. But on the floor, I guess you explain to two types of traders, own account traders and back traders. So the back traders are backed by their house, so they have different risk parameters, and this is always money. It's never a percentage of account like you're taught. It's never 1% of your capital. It's a like a daily stop. It's like, right, you're a thousand down in the morning. That was bad. Okay? So you've got another thousand pounds in the afternoon to make it back. You can't trade till the afternoon, and that's it. That's how the risk worked. So it's nothing to do with how retail
[00:20:47] think, and it's more to do with you being under- able to understand what that trader's done in the past, you know, what he can do in the future. And you know, many a times, you know, traders would lose in the morning, end up winning in the afternoon. But it's having that somebody else outside. And it obviously is there for a reason. It's someone outside of the floor, outside of you that says, and you've got to be very tactful. And sometimes I got this wrong. You know, I got shouted at. And and that's fine, you know, this is how you kind of you you figure things out for yourself and how you kind of, you know,
[00:21:17] get through and grow and understand what traders are going through. But yeah, plenty of people that, you know, kind of would lose in the morning, then win in the afternoon, or or winning in the afternoon and it looked like they were starting to lose money and, you know, sized up and tried too hard. So you go and have a word and say, "Well, that's a pretty good day. You're up X amount. Maybe you should call it a day." And it's having that external influence. And it's not to say I've got more experience, I just I see what everyone else is doing. And you know, you say, "Maybe that's enough for today." And I think that's something that, you know, really is missing from the kind of
[00:21:49] retail side of just guys doing it on their own. Who have they got to talk to? Who's there? You know, you have to do it for yourself. So having that kind of risk manager experience mentality and that kind of stuff, it's something that brought something else to my trading. And you know, as I say, a lot of traders, even, you know, big traders on the floor, they can't go into the the risk room. You know, you're not allowed. You're not allowed to see other people's P&Ls. So you know, I got an insight into what other people did that many many many traders will never get to see. I'm
[00:22:20] not saying that, you know, I I I saw the Matrix and cracked the code or anything. I just saw what was actually achievable and people really really doing it. And, you know, some of the kind of aspects and and and key points that I took were were speed and size. And that really, you know, hit home with me. And that was something that when I was to go back to trading, that was that was my aim. My ultimate aim was speed and size. Hey guys and girls, it's Tessa. Sorry for the interruption. This is going to be quick. These interviews take time and
[00:22:52] dedication to do, and honestly, we hardly make any money from it. Enough to cover expenses of running a podcast though, but we do it because we love contributing to the trading community. And all we ask from you, our dear listeners, if you love Chat With Traders, please be generous and give us a like and subscribe to our channel and tell others. This can be your way of letting us know that you love the podcast and so that we can keep it going on forever. No, just kidding. Not forever, but for as long as we can. On behalf of my
[00:23:24] co-host, Ian Cox, and I at Chat With Traders, thank you so much. Now, back to the show. I see. So working in the risk department actually taught you how important it is to take on more risk that the big players who made the big money actually took on size. Is that accurate? Absolutely. Right at the right time. You know, you know, when you when you see an opportunity and, you know, everything's aligned. And you know that the floors were great for that because it was almost like you'd have a hush and then a
[00:23:55] buzz. You know, like people would know when things were going on. You know what other traders traded. So you'd hear like maybe them say something or shout. And they'd be like, "Oh, well, that's obviously he's long the bond and it's going down. What's that doing to my market?" And you know, it it's there was a lot of kind of obviously these floors existed for a reason, you know, to kind of create that buzz, to create that kind of sense of urgency and, you know, bravado and to push you to do better. And that that worked to a certain point. And what I found is, you know, after a you know, after we will continue on with
[00:24:25] that my story, is that, you know, it can be a little bit counterproductive, you know, always being in a pressurized environment where you're trying to be the absolute best. You know, it it it it can be can be disheartening. So you mentioned about retail traders a couple times in your latest in your latest book, you talk about the common traits of retail traders. Could you go into that for us? The whole point about the retail market and the retail traders is there's a lot of people that say the pro word and and they kind of bash it around like it's
[00:24:57] the answer to everything. You know, pro is just a mentality. Pro means you do it for a living and make money from it. And I think a lot of retail traders fall into this category of an endless doom loop of trying to learn. And that's all they do. They try to learn more technical analysis. They try to understand all the you know, the the different parts of the fundamental analysis that makes up the market. And they don't progress because they don't get the confidence to press the button when it matters because everything seems
[00:25:27] to constantly conflict. So traders, the retail traders, will try and get that consistency. That's all all traders, you know, that I've mentored and and kind of worked with over the years try to do. It is get that consistency. And when they get that consistency, they'll size up. Okay? There's no easy time to size up. There's no easy time to kind of make that next psychological step. You just have to do it. And that will be different for every trader, every trader's personality. But on on the trading journey as I call it, every
[00:25:58] every trader, you know, you know, the professionals, the retail, the good, the bad, the ugly, they will go on this journey. They will hit different points at different times, but it will still be the same journey for everyone until you actually get into a point where you're confident to press the button and do it consistently for yourself. So the the the the main retail kind of traits that that that I see is that people lack the ability to give them permission to know what they need to do anyway. Everyone can say this is what I'm going to do. This is what they say my plan is. But
[00:26:28] very few people actually follow it through. And very few people follow it through with a plan that actually relates back to money. So this is the other thing why I always talk about money. It's all very well saying that, yeah, I'm consistent. I made 10 winning trades this week and I've made a hundred dollars. Okay, well, a hundred dollars a week, four hundred dollars, four and a half grand a year. Is that worth 10 hours a day sitting at your your screen? No. So you've got to kind of make these things worth while. And you you know, you your time is important. You know, time is much
[00:26:59] more important to me these days than money. And it always has been since I kind of I click or quotes got it. And so that's my balance, you know, from my kind of side because I do class myself as a retail trader because I I am. I I trade on a retail platform. I'm I may be at the pro level of money, I guess, to some extent. But I'm still a pro trader. So what I'm always doing is balancing out. Do I need to be sat in front of the screen trading or could I be doing something else? When I am sat in front of the screens, it's for a reason. I'm not sat there
[00:27:29] necessarily waiting for something to happen. I've, you know, I have alerts. I have, you know, things set up on my charts. My office is always open. I'm generally around the house or or nearby. So I can go back to the screen when I need to trade and do something. And when I do, it will be, you know, for for whatever reason, and it will be degree of size and to make a degree of money. I'm not just clicking the button for the fun of it or for the sake of it or just to kind of be in the market. I'm I'm purely there to make money. And that's really what I I kind of get
[00:28:00] confused and concerned with the retail traders is because they want to make the money, but they're not doing the right things in order to do it. So you said in your book that you try to identify one big trade a month. Could you break that down for us? What what are we looking for when we're looking for the big trade for the month? Well, I mean, a big trade is you know, you're either looking, you know, for something to shift, you know, the narrative that going through the market or or or something to correct. So I mean, all the big trade means to me,
[00:28:31] and it's different because I only have three trade types and two entries. So the the big trade for me is a time thing. All my three trade types revolve around time. I've got a scalp that lasts up to 15 minutes, an average trade which lasts up to two hours, and a day trade that lasts up to eight hours. So a big trade for me, a big trade means staying in a trade for a longer amount of time, which can be up to eight hours. So some of my trades have been minutes, seconds even. So minutes, hours are a long time for me
[00:29:03] in trading. You know, I'm predominantly a scalper. But if I'm looking for a big trade, you know, something to break, you know, something to break out of the trend. And that can be triggered by, you know, a piece of data. It can be triggered by a comment. Or it could be just be triggered that I will want to leave some money on the table. This important. So when I'm a a scalper, I try and take the profit the first time it is offered to me. Okay? So I'm trying to take money out of the market quickly and not leave it on the table. So when you do an average trade and you bring the element of time in, especially a day
[00:29:34] trade, your P&L will fluctuate. It will go up and down. So I don't like leaving money on the table. So if you're leaving something and you think it's worth holding the time risk, you're going going seeing that P&L fluctuating and going down, which is counterintuitive for me. But, the big trades, I generally use smaller size on, so I can make bigger wins with a guess less perceived risk by letting time come into it, cuz generally the shorter the time I'm in for a trade, the bigger size I'm using to compensate for
[00:30:05] the small amount of time in the market. So, what you're looking for is a time element. I'm looking for the market to make a directional shift, and it's not it's the absolute high or low is from the current trend. It's moving out of what it's doing. And this can be anything. It can be, you know, a you know, a reaction to data. It can be a reaction to something that's said. You know, it it could just be profit taking from the big players. You know, at the end of the day, you know, things will range and they'll move, and that's, you know, kind of good for scalping. And then when markets break out, sometimes you have to add the extra element of
[00:30:35] time and position yourself in a different way to benefit from bigger pip tick movements. Mhm. So, you mentioned the time element. So, are the these are tied again to some kind of news release that you're anticipating uh some kind of reaction to that may come around periodically, but it's not necessarily that common. I mean, you're cuz you're waiting for these announcements, correct? Well, I mean, you're waiting for announcements or a technical setup. I mean, again, I think, you know, people rely too much on this idea that, you
[00:31:06] know, the fundamentals will will give you a big opportunity. I've traded plenty of big fundamental events and made sizable amounts of money. But these are unexpected events. These is not what they expect what the market is expecting. Okay? So, if you think you're going to trade the non-farm payrolls, see a piece of data, that's actually quite dangerous piece of data to trade, cuz the market in the short term can do the exact opposite of what opposite of what you think. So, what you're really trying to do, you know, and that's what any trader is trying to do, is seeing how the narrative, how the market has built up its sentiment, what it's
[00:31:37] thinking, and will it continue or will it reverse? That's all you ever I'm ever really thinking. And all I'm ever thinking is is this a a short opportunity to scalp within that range or that breakout? Cuz again, I've got two different entry types. I either follow the market or I fade what I see. So, is this a 15-minute opportunity of volatility? Is it a 2-hour opportunity of volatility? Or is it a day trade opportunity where the market will move, consolidate, and then continue? Because that's the biggest trade in pit wise
[00:32:08] you're going to get. When something consolidates, you know, it's confirmed confirmation, and then it continues. Cuz when I'm scalping, I'm never looking for confirmation. I'm just looking for price action and the market to get to levels that I set, and I incrementally increase my size to have more risk and to have more short-term pain in order for the market to pull back quickly. So, it's all everything I do is based around looking for types of movement and volatility and how I can apply my framework in time work in in a in a time
[00:32:41] frame to what's happening in the market. Mhm. So, how do you set your targets? Uh and how do you do you try to vary them depending on the type of news and the type of events? Is it how how does that work? I mean, everything revolves around the size of the account that I'm trading. Uh you know, I'm not like normal traders. I will trade multiple accounts. Um I have different reasons for doing that. So, when I'm trading, you know, a account where I've had wins, you know, and I'm on a on a good streak, I might
[00:33:13] try to do more, you know, kind of average trades or day trades, and then leave the scalping to another account to build that up. So, I'm always looking for certain types of movement, and it's either very very quick movement that breaks out of the range. And that again, that could be from something that's said, you know, anything can move the market. Look at Trump right now, you know, he's back another 4 years. You know, he didn't mention um crypto in his uh inauguration speech, and it dropped. Now he's signed an executive order just today, and it went up, and then it
[00:33:44] dropped. So, that's things that can now change the market sentiment in the short term, and you can provide short-term opportunities. But I mean, you have you either have to be sat there waiting for these events or sat in front of the screens waiting for Trump to say things. Or you can trade it more from a a technical perspective, where you you it's not necessarily the levels are going to be hit. What I set my kind of alerts for is how quickly levels are hit, cuz that indicates the volatility. And I'm a very visual trader, and I, you know, I trade visual things, visual
[00:34:15] patterns, as I said before. And when I'm trading, you know, I I know intrinsically how much size I'm going to use based upon the trade type, and I've got a good idea because I've done thousands and thousands of scalps what I can make up particular types of movement. And it's always monetary. So, it's like, what's a quick scalp, couple of minutes? I might make 10,000 pounds. 10,000 dollars, whatever. That's fine. You know, I have an idea of what I can do. Now the markets move so quickly, and this comes back to the kind of the pro side of the the days on the floor, but
[00:34:46] you know, you used to speak. That's what you pay for, direct market access. You can lead on the bid and offer. You could be in and out. You can't necessarily be as quick as you can on a retail side, but there is an element of that, and that's why scaling to positions quickly. And I have almost like I would I think I'll call it in the book a muscle memory. Um I'm just so used to seeing something and clicking and being able to change my size on the keyboard quickly to be able to get in, and that's my edge, that's my element, you know, of being able to take short-term pain and to think extremely quickly. Is that I
[00:35:16] know the outcome's going to be an amount of money I know I don't want to lose, and I'm out. So, I have one simple close all. I'm in or I'm out for profit or loss. And then when a profit comes on side, I, you know, do things that again, the when you talk to other traders or the experts will say never look at your P&L. Well, you have to look at your P&L. It's your P&L. The big thing retail traders don't understand is when you're trading retail, you're not trading directly in the market. You know, you're trading simulated markets. So, what I see in my P&L can be there one second and gone the
[00:35:47] next. So, when I'm scalping, I might see big numbers, and I have to be quick to press that button, cuz that can flip back to a to a break even or a negative position, you know, in a matter of seconds. So, what you're seeing on a retail perspective is not what you'd see if you're trading on a a TT screen, uh direct market access, for instance. So, there's lots of nuances that I've picked up through trading over the years that uh you know, do distinctly separate the way you can professionally trade and the way you can trade on a retail platform. Mhm. Um speaking of narrative, uh you
[00:36:20] mentioned in your book that uh uh you used to believe that uh narrative was 80% or trading was 80% technical, 20% fundamentals, and now it's shifted to uh more to 50/50. Um why is that? Could you if you could go into that? Absolutely. I mean, yeah. I mean, over the last 10 years, obviously I've had a, you know, enough screen time and, you know, I I watch the news like everybody else. I think, you know, we we we can't not listen to the news, it seems these days. And I think, you know, what we've we've seen after, you know, big events like COVID, etc., and, you know, what
[00:36:52] we're coming to now, you know, the climate change, net zero things going on for a long time. There's been a lot of narrative built up that, you know, there's there's a problem and there's a fix. Okay? And you you're given information, and then you're meant to agree with the narrative because the fix, you know, has to be better than the problem. And what I've seen, you know, that's news. We all have to live with that, you know, what can we do? Not not not listen to the news anymore, you know, basically, you know, just just just shut ourselves off. We can't do that. But what I've seen, you know, especially in the kind of
[00:37:24] news from the business side or financial side, is there's a narrative building up again. You know, we've got this narrative right now where, you know, the economy's great. You know, it's stock market's making all-time highs. That's great. Well, number one, the stock market's not the economy. So, there's lots of things building up that I see to kind of bring people in to say, "Yeah, okay, everything's working. It's got the stock market's good." But then we're ignoring the jobs, the job revisions, you know, the facts, you know, the non-farm payrolls that are made up of basically part-time jobs. We're not seeing the massive amounts of layoff
[00:37:54] that's happening in tech. You know, we're not seeing the kind of consolidation of businesses. So, when you talk about, you know, the kind of fundamental side, you know, for for a pro trader, and again, I'm talking for the institutions and that kind of stuff, they can build their positions and views over a long time, and the narrative seems to support them until the time comes then to pull, and then the institutions make a lot of money, and the pros and maybe the retail will lose, you know, quite a lot of money. You know, you don't want to go into this stuff too much because it starts to kind of you get this tin foil hat mentality where
[00:38:26] everything's against you, and you know, that there's some big conspiracy. All I know is money makes money, and all I know is I know some rich people, much much richer than, you know, kind of the Elon Musk type type characters, you know, billions and billions and billions. And they know what the rich people, and you see it with the media, and you see it with, you know, business. Everything's getting consolidated, and rich people talk to rich people. They're so what I'm saying is, you know, there's especially again for the retail trader, you can't focus too much on what you
[00:38:56] don't and never may understand. Yeah, lots of things are going to be said, lots of things are going to happen, but is that going to make you money? Not necessarily. So, what I'm a big, you know, kind of believer in. And listen, I wrote the book, and then I have to be write the book. You know, I'm I'm fine, you know, I can sit my days trading, and that's fine. But I had something to say. I might you know, I want to kind of you know, put it on the record that you know, that there's lots of things happening in the world, and there's lots of things happening through our trading, and I've seen it trade, you know, change in front of my very eyes. You know, I've seen the media and it it its attitude,
[00:39:27] how it presents data change. So, I just want people to be prepared that, you know, everything you see, you know, doesn't have to necessarily be taken a pinch of salt, but it's not necessarily there to make you money. So, the best thing you can do as a as a trader or a retail trader is kind of fade out a little bit of this news. You know, look at the screens. What are the markets telling you? How are they moving? Don't get too pigeonholed into listening that some hedge fund manager is going to tell you what the next big stock is going to be because they're all out there to make money. You know, this
[00:39:57] is a it's a tough hard game. And it's like I said, you know, back on the floor, no trader is going to tell you exactly what they do because that's their edge. So, be very kind of wary about what you're being told and expecting it to give you instant results because they don't. You know, the biggest things that are going to kind of move the markets are the unexpected things. But there are so few unexpected things because of that underlying narrative. You know, and the big thing that will come, you probably miss it because it'll be so big and so quick, you haven't had time to prepare.
[00:40:27] So, I mean you know, that's what I'm saying. You know, I have seen you the kind of kind of shift. And what I've kind of done for my perspective is that yeah, I'm you're okay. I can class myself as an economist. I've been a a trader for long enough. But, you know, I don't take too much notice um of, you know, what the actual data is uh or what it said. I'm I'm much more concerned about how the market reacts. So, again, you know, like the non-farm payrolls are a great example. It could be a strong you know, my market non-farm could be a strong market payroll number.
[00:40:58] But then the market like the S&P or whatever they the Nasdaq etc. sells off because they you know, it's the narrative is then the economy is very strong. So, we don't have to you know, put interest rates down which you know, that that's a negative for stocks. So, you can end up, you know, like the technical analysis have so much on your charts and so many kind of indicators that you get like kind of trading blindness. And the same thing can happen with the fundamental side is you hear so much that it starts becoming use useful to you and it just becomes a distraction. So, really you know, again for for my advice or my kind of you
[00:41:30] know, view on this I've done it myself is I'm much less interested in what the actual data is in the narrative or the long-term view. I'm much more interested in what it does to the market. And if you don't know what it's going to do to the market, don't trade it. You can let the market trade the next 5 minutes and still have an opportunity for a pullback or continuation and still make your pips. The end of the day, trading is about being right at the right time, not picking the high and the low, not riding, you know, the the the the trend or the trade as long as you can. That's
[00:42:00] for people that use small size and have to have time. If you can use any kind of reasonable amount of time, 20-30 pips is enough to make you some good money from a trade. And there's less risk involved as I see it. Mhm. Just for our listeners, 20 or 30 pips is equal to what? 2/10 or 3/10 of a percent or or how many it depends what you're trading. From a retail perspective, you know, when you're trading you know, a pip movement, yeah, you're talking about 20 30 pips on, you know, the kind of
[00:42:31] whatever instrument you're trading. So, it's not necessarily like the futures, you know, you just actual price increment movements. In your book, you said I am an animal when it comes to trading. Tell us about what it's like to be an animal. Yeah, I mean as I say, you know, when I'm in the the trading zone or I'm trading you know, a lot of what I saw back in the day and how I saw people trade is everyone likes to think they can take the emotion out of trading
[00:43:03] and the emotion out of out of life. Maybe you take the emotion out of trading with a stop and a take profit. Maybe, you know, you can to a certain degree with investing when you're trading over, you know, kind of months, years, and decades. When you're trading for minutes, seconds, or you know, very short periods of time, you're going to have some emotions. And you know, what I try and do is I harness those emotions and it's a combination of fear, it's combination of greed, you know, it's a combination of um I know whatever I do in that short
[00:43:34] period of time is going to be uncomfortable. But you're trained to do it. You know, when you see and you put big size into the market, you know, you're paying a spread and certainly when you're fading the market and you're putting bigger size and you're seeing the bigger numbers add up your minus P&Ls. You know, you have to be some ways, you know, right there in the moment, completely focused, nothing else can see you, but also be able to take a step outside of your body almost and say, "Well, you've been here before. You've seen these numbers before. It's nothing new. You've done this hundreds, maybe thousands of times." You know, you
[00:44:06] just have to ride with it. You have to do it. So, the animal side of it just comes with with speed. And I can set the and I can click my mouse, you know, with 50, 60, 100 lots multiple times in quick successions and I don't hesitate. I don't think about it. I don't fear the outcome. I know the outcome. I'm either going to lose money or going to make money. But that's what makes me an animal. Otherwise I guess the animal I don't know I don't really know why I describe it as an animal. Maybe it's because I feel like
[00:44:38] I'm not normal to the perception of what a trader is or what the perception of people think traders is. You know, back on the floor, you know, traders were aggressive. You know, they were blokes, you know, they were they were manly, you know, they you know, very much all about the bravado and you have to somehow put that into your personality when you're on the screens because you know, that doesn't matter. No one else can see you. Nobody else can see what you're doing. Nobody else, you know, is around to pat you on the back or tell you, you know, that was stupid. So, you're just sat there on your own in your office like I always am. So, you've got to be almost become something else, become something
[00:45:10] a bit different than human. You know, I have to be able to do things without fear uh and you know, without hesitation and understand that you know, this is something I've done to for a long time and you know, keep continually doing what I know is right even though it's uncomfortable for the short time. What do you think is the biggest lie about trading that most traders accept to be true? Mhm. Interesting question. This
[00:45:40] certainly a few. I think that the biggest lie that traders are told is that once you're consistent, you can scale up. You know, that that really for me is that you know, it it really doesn't work like that. And you know, scaling up can be anything. You know, the difference between making hundreds in a trade and thousands in a trade consistently, you know, it is is very tough to get for you know, especially the retail traders and even for some pro traders, you know, that have managed over the years. But you
[00:46:10] know, that difference between getting from thousands to tens of thousands, you know, even I struggle to get into the hundreds of thousands for a trade. You know, it there's only so much there's only so much of a level you can reach and after a period of time one to reach. You know, if I was going to be, you know, the million dollar a trade trader, I'd have done it years back. So, there's a level everyone gets to where even you're uncomfortable with the time or the size you have to put in or the person maybe you have to become. So, really for me, you know, for the average person, the biggest lie is that
[00:46:42] if you're just consistent and you follow all the rules, eventually you'll get there. Well, you might eventually get there, but that might take you 10, 15, 20 years. You know, what retail trader or trader has got that time to spend and invest in this? So, at some point you have to get outside your comfort zone and start moving up or otherwise you just run out of interest or you run out of time or you run out of money. See, but for traders who are not yet consistent, how do they scale up safely? Or is that even possible? I mean scale up can obviously be done
[00:47:13] gradually. I mean, when I'm mentoring people, generally people come to me and they're trading micro lots or one lots. So, the first thing is well, you know, start trading two lots. You know, not a lot of difference, you know, between one lot and a two lot. And then when you've got maybe a few wins under your belt maybe try for a three lot. And invariably, that first trade is a loser and you go back to square one. So, it's all I mean, the thing is really with that kind of stuff it's it's a difficult question to answer because everyone's different. So, people have personalities, markets have personalities because of the personalities that trade them.
[00:47:44] You know, what you have to get into is that so it's very hard to trade to change a person's personality. So, a personality will have a trading style. You know, be introvert, be an extrovert, be a risk averse, you know, being very, you know, kind of appetite, you know, for for risk. And what you have to try and do it is kind of play within people's tolerance for what they think is you know, achievable. And I've always done it the same way with money. You know, you set a target you want to make for a month and then you you work your backwards to what can you then make in a week? What can you make in a day? How many trades you
[00:48:15] want to do in a day? And then you start to build up, you know, the scale up of the size to reflect the smaller trades, you know, the the the the individual trades that make up your days, your days that make up your weeks, your weeks that make up your month. Then you can see that you're achieving it. There's no easy way to scale or there's no easy way to get over that mental hurdle of being able to do it. And the gap between one, two, 10 lots is pretty the same. You know, it it could be difficult. Once you get over, you know, kind of 100 lot and building positions up to thousands of lots
[00:48:46] that's something that takes time and something that I think that's just in you. You have to have belief in yourself or seen something like I have and you have to want to do it. So, my aim really, you know, it was I wanted the money for sure. But I needed to see if I could handle the size. I needed to know if I could do it. And that's what pushed me through. I just kept clicking bigger numbers because I knew I had to do it and I knew if I could do it there was a you know, a future ahead. If I couldn't do it, I didn't see the point in trading. So, I forced myself to do it. Kind of like
[00:49:17] going to the gym and and doing repetitions with weights. With trading, is it similar? We have to put in the reps with trading to get our confidence up so that we can get comfortable with size. Absolutely. I mean, everything's repetition, isn't it? Everything. You know, anyone can be trained pretty much to anything. You know, you could train somebody to be a brain surgeon with enough time. Would you want them to operate on you? Probably not. It's the same thing. Do you want someone doing it for the first time that can probably do it or a doctor that's been proven to do it? You know, it's It's like everything.
[00:49:49] I don't have any magic answers. I don't have any universal way of how anyone gets to be me. And I don't ever tell people to be like me. I don't want anyone to trade necessarily like me. They need to find their own path, their own way, and what resonates with them. Make their system, whatever that might consist of, you know, their own. Because owning something and have ownership of it is the only way that you can be truly free in trading. It's your decisions. You live and die by your sword. You know, keep trying to follow somebody else's system. We all take elements from
[00:50:20] things. That's the human nature. But your system has to be your system. You have to be able to rely that when your system or your thinking or your methodology in trading, you know, is triggered, you then do something based upon what you have seen. Mhm. Mhm. Uh in your book you you said that uh managing the onside offside part of the day trade is the hardest thing for me to do. Um could you expand on that? Yeah, I mean the day trade, you know, I do find difficult because as I said, it
[00:50:50] comes back to this idea of leaving money on the on the table. So again, I tend not to trade maybe as much size with these types of trades, but then you will build into the position. But then it's a lot of waiting. You know, I have a lot of time to talk yourself out of trades. Now, the less I think in trading um the the the better my results are. I'm much more kind of click and do. You know, I'm not saying that I have the markets figured out or anything. I don't. I've got my head to anyone's extent figured
[00:51:20] out. So I know when something happens or I'm doing a certain type of trade, I can do something. So when it comes to the day trade, you know, as I say, that that involves up to 8 hours of trading or of of watching, should I say, mainly. Because once you've got your your onside position, now yeah, sure. I could put a stop in the take profit and leave it. That's just not what I do. So obviously when I'm trading the day trade, I'm expecting movement. I'm expecting something to happen. Now, it might be initial movement consolidation as I said, and then more movement, or it might be quick movement, little bit consolidation, and more. You just don't know. And the thing is when you're
[00:51:51] holding positions, I don't put stops in cuz I'm always watching the markets cuz something can change. You know, something can happen. So I'm constantly, you know, monitoring that position. And maybe that comes back then to the risk management days. But my hardest part of the day trade is cons- you know, con- continually watching that P&L fluctuate. And that constant kind of, you know, doubt that comes into your head. Should I take it now? Or, you know, should you know, is it going to go to this level? And yes, it might be easier to put a stop in with a take profit, but that's not how I trade. And I don't want to
[00:52:21] trade that way. And that's just it is. So yes, um it is very difficult for me to do those those day trades. And yes, I have made big money from them. And I guess in risk terms, they require a little bit less risk. But I'm much more of a a a scalper and short-term trade. You know, I want to be in the market quickly. I want to take my profit out. And that really comes down to what I've seen on the floor, what I did on the floor. You know, my heart of hearts, I am a scalper. But as the markets, you know, evolve and change, you know, you can't
[00:52:53] just be one thing, I don't think, anymore. You can't just be one style of trader in one market. You know, you can't you know, you can Oh, you can. That's fine. But I've found that over time in the last 10 years by having three types of trade that incorporate time, I can trade one of my eight products, and I will get a good opportunity for a day trade every month, plenty of average trades, and plenty of opportunities to scalp. And that combined means that, you know, statistically, you know, that I will will make the money that I need to over the year.
[00:53:23] In your book you say that 80% of your trades are shorts. Why is this? And is it challenging to find trades in a rising bull market? Yeah, I mean again, the the this is the thing, you know, uh what I like to do i- is i- is to see the markets spike and a- and you know, get those quick pullbacks. So a lot of you'll see a lot of spikes, and you'll see a lot of uh the these kind of, you know, big individual candles. And but they won't be there for very long. So
[00:53:55] it's not for everyone. And the thing is, you know, it it's You see what you see a lot of them. And you know, I you know, I I see a lot of them in the kind of you know, small time frames to move that the 5 and the 15 minute. Um and what you'll see is when you generally look at the the hourlies, you'll see the wicks left. But what I what I see is whatever those kind of moves are. And yes, we're in a bull market in pretty much everything, aren't we? Everything to record highs. But you know, you're going to see profit taking. You know, you're going to see the market pull back. And when you're only looking for small amounts of movement like I am,
[00:54:27] you know, you identify these these these moves that seemingly will come out of nowhere. And you know, you can short them with big size. And you know, you just take a small percentage of that move. And and that's what I like to do. I mean, the thing is, I do have a favorite trade type. And you know, that relies on speed. It relies on my animalness, my aggression. And that's what I look out for the most because although it's a short period of un- uncomfortableness or, you know, getting in your that mindset of trading, I can do that, you
[00:54:59] know, maybe a a couple of times a week, and I can I can make what I need to make for the week from 10 minutes' work. But you've got to be patient. You know, you've got to wait for these things. You got to wait for the right kind of move. And whatever, you know, my statistics to what I've done over the years, that just seems to be the most statistically, you know, kind of relevant trade that I have an edge. But I mean, it's just a constant, isn't it? It's a It's a constant of looking at the market. It's a constant of knowing when the volatility's going to come, you know,
[00:55:29] based around calendar events, based around technical levels, based around, you know, certain types of movement. So all all I'm trying to do is is come to the market when I know something has happened, and then trade accordingly. Or come to the market before it happens, and then trade accordingly. So I'm either fading what I see, as I say, or trading, you know, the follow-through of what's going to happen, then trying to apply a time framework around that, which encompasses my risk and my size. So I do as I say, I don't think retail traders should spend 10 hours in
[00:55:59] front of the screen every day because you're going to see an opportunity to trade, and you're going to get bored. You know, you're going to do a test trade, or you're going to do a boredom trade. You know, when I sit in front of the screen, I'm trading, and I keep my clip, you know, uh purposely high that there is no kind of boredom trade. You know, you put that trade on. You sat in front you know, you sat up in your seat. You're engaged. You know, you're not playing around with size. It's not a game. You know, that size in the market, and I know once I put size in, I'm always going to average. It's going to be more. So you know, you know, when you This is the
[00:56:30] thing, you know, i- if you're there to make money and be in front of the screen and trade, there has to be a reason. If you sat there in front of your screens, you know, for for hours after hours, you will always find a reason. So what I've been able to do over the many years what I've been doing i- is is, you know, I still have screens on. I still have my my, you know, accounts ready to trade, but I'm not sat there waiting for something. I think there's enough connectivity, enough information around there to be sat at, you know, times where the market's going to move. And we're going to see much more of this with with Trump. That's what we saw um
[00:57:01] you know, for the last 4 years when he was president. He would come out and say things, and the market would react in some ways, and they would quickly, you know, spike in one direction, then it would consolidate. It would come back, you know, because he says a lot of things. It doesn't mean necessarily they're going to turn into something. So that might be an advantage, you know, if you do have a squawk service or you do have a Twitter feed up, and you can watch things and watch the markets react. But then again, I find that is more the entertainment type trading. These are guys, you know, that want, you
[00:57:32] know, oh, I made 100 pips on that. Okay, so you know, you made a few hundred dollars. So what? I want to be trading when I see something or hear something where I'm ready for something that I can commit to and use the size that I want to do. And again, you know, that's all the book's really about is my journey, you know, to size. And yeah, it didn't happen overnight. You know, I went through my own trading journey just like everyone else. And yes, I'm not saying I'm the best trader. I've, you know, got hit plenty of times in trading. I had losses. And a lot of the times my biggest losses have been around data. Um you know, my ego's kicked in, and I've,
[00:58:03] you know, thought this is what the market should do. And I've held the trade for longer than I should. It's like, well, it has to turn now. The market has to do it. I'm Steve Ruffley. I'm right. I understand this stuff. Then you get more pain, and then it's like, uh. So yeah. I mean, this is the thing, you know, I've learned by making money, and certainly lost learned by losing money. Um but you know, again, all I've done i- is is condensed this into a relatively simple framework of time and entry styles, and you know, being able to understand that how much money and how much size I can put in each one of
[00:58:35] those trades each time. So that's that's really how I got to where I am. By that whole journey of of the things I've seen, the things I've done. And uh and yeah. In your book um you mentioned, quote, "When the markets hit an extreme, it will always pull back." So how do we measure what is extreme, and kind of what are some technical indicators do you use to measure what is extreme or not? Well, the extremes again will will be
[00:59:06] based upon the range and that kind of stuff. I like to measure extremes by previous movements. So as I said before, I'm a big fan of Fibonacci. So I use Fibonacci expansion points, uh you know, to kind of view where I see the extremes of the market. Uh so they can be very useful in the upside and the downside. Uh so generally, you know, that's what I'm looking for. But also, you know, it's a very visual thing. Um when you see um candles as they form and as they move, you you again, you start to I don't want to sound too Rain Man here, but you start to see patterns in how they move. And that's, you know, again,
[00:59:38] when you're talking the professional side, you know, you'll have professional software like CQG, they'll have market depth, you know, they'll have a lot of information that retail traders want. So, my kind of extremes of the market, you know, are based upon looking on, you know, candlesticks. And you know, on a on a retail platform, so there will be delays sometimes and there will be kind of jake. So, I have a set framework for every single product that I trade. Um my charts that I wrote for Well, I had them written for me. It's my IP about 9 10 years ago. So, my levels are already
[01:00:09] predetermined. So, every single chart I have, I have predetermined levels. So, I know for me what I think based upon my experience on mathematics and all that kind of, you know, the technical analysis that I've kind of gathered that works for me. I know if a if a if a market hits certain extremes based upon my levels, that's what I'm classing as an extreme. It might not be the extreme to you. Might not be the extreme to um you know, the market as such, but the levels I've used and I have I have confidence in them. So, this is the difference, you know,
[01:00:39] when you're looking for somebody else to tell you, you know, "Oh, that's a big daily level according to you know, this, you know, analyst." So, what? I'm not interested. I'm interested in my levels, in things that I've traded, you know, thousands of times. And that gives me the confidence to trade to and from these levels. So, everything's based upon my framework of what I've had written for me. And yeah, most of the time, you know, it's fairly accurate and sometimes it it's wrong. But that's when the kind of, you know, picking the kind of right trade type comes into into play. I mean, there's a lot of things when you trade at speed
[01:01:11] like I do in size. You know, you have to make split second decisions. And you know, that that's that's part of the game. That that's something you can't really teach. That's a combination of experience. As I say, the animalness, the aggressiveness. You know, if you want to be someone like me that does what I do, then it isn't you know, if you don't do something outside of the box, then you're just going to end up like everybody else. And the stats on retail traders is probably 70 to 80% of retail traders lose money when trading. So, if you want to be
[01:01:42] something else, maybe you have to be doing something else. Never saying go to my extreme or do what I can I try and do and what I do, but you have to do something maybe at least slightly different. You know, because otherwise, you're going to end up with the same results. So, to wrap things up, is there anything that you've been working on that's exciting exciting for you? What more exciting than a book? The book that I took 3 years writing. Oh, okay. Yeah, I mean, What is the name of What is the name of your book? Well, the the book that I wrote was the
[01:02:12] the retail the pro retail trader. That's that's that's that's just been kind of released in November of last year. So, that's still pretty new. So, I spent a lot of time writing that. As for new stuff, to be honest, I've done thousands of of webinars over the years. You know, I'm probably just going to kind of take a step back for a minute. I'm just going to uh you know, trade what I do, you know, trade my size. And yeah, I don't know if there's anything trading wise that's going to be particularly interesting. I mean, people
[01:02:43] always ask me to kind of, you know, start up webinars again and you know, kind of live trade rooms. You know, there's enough interest in that stuff, you know, I will do. It It But the thing is, everyone's trying to copy what someone else is trying to do. That's what I say. And everyone's trying to kind of, you know, watch what someone else is doing. But the fact of the matter is, you know, from all my years of being in the markets and the different types of traders environments I've been in, it will come down to this. That those who can do it have it in them or can create that in them. If you can't, you're just going to be finding more and more reasons to prove that you can't do
[01:03:15] it. Mhm. So, yeah, maybe maybe I'll try and uh try and do an expansion on that. Maybe an add-on to the book or something. I don't know. But yeah, I mean, just for me really, uh it's been interesting to do a podcast again. I've been working on the book. I've been quite quiet from a a kind of ego perspective of kind of getting myself out there and talking to people. But yeah, it's been nice, you know, it's been nice to kind of to chat to you guys. You know, I've followed you for a long time. So, it's it's quite nice to be on here, to be honest. Yeah. Well, Steve, um thanks for coming on Chat With Traders.
[01:03:46] Great. Thank you very much. Yeah. How can our listeners reach you? Uh well, Google steveruffley.com, Twitter @steveruffley, YouTube @steveruffley. Essentially, @steveruffley, everything Steve Ruffley. Great. Fantastic. Thanks for coming on. Thank you. Hey, stay tuned for my quick conversation behind the scenes with Steve after the interview. There were a lot of golden nuggets there that I took for myself, too. Um I'm an active trader. But oh, really? It's hard
[01:04:19] for me to become an animal because I I try to like size up. I'm I'm at the point where I am getting more consistent and I do want to size up. But that is like psychologically so hard. And I do did push myself like what you said. I did incrementally sizing up a little bit. And it's just putting in the reps and just trying to do it. But it is so so hard cuz I just it's just that my um I don't know. I just don't have that aggressiveness in trading, but I'm trying to push myself to be something
[01:04:49] I'm not. Yeah, I mean, no. No, I mean, you have to you have to remember there's two things here. Okay, so the first time you kind of size up, you generally lose cuz that's just how life is. And you know, you have to bounce back from that. Uh and the second thing is, you know, you don't necessarily have to be a different person or an animal. You know, I've had clients in the past that put on personas. So, I've had, you know, quite successful people, you know, surgeons and that kind of stuff. And when they speak to me, they put they they they made them call me a different name. So, they're not the surgeon person anymore. They're a different alter ego.
[01:05:20] I'm not saying go to that extreme. But as I say, you know, when I do my kind of animal thing, and it's funny cuz I I didn't even know I'd written that that way um when you brought it up. It It is. I'm only battling with myself. And I go into a state and you know, you know, I'm hyper focused. I'm aggressive. I'm a little bit frightened. There's some fear and greed in there. But I'm not letting the fear and greed get to me. I'm using it to my advantage. I'm saying I've been here before. I've done this size before. You know, it's trying to test you. You know, it's trying to push you. And it will You know, your
[01:05:50] averages are there. You've done it for long enough, it will come back to you. So, it's just constantly pushing yourself and pushing yourself and knowing that if it's in you, you can draw it out from yourself. It is in I do believe that level of it is in everybody. It's just how hard you want to push inside and how you want to ask the difficult questions of yourself. Yeah. Mhm. That that is awesome to hear. Um yeah, another thing, too, I have one more minute, but I just want another golden nugget for me was uh the P&L thing. I
[01:06:23] you know, I hear people say don't look at your P&L and you said, "Oh, yeah, I mean, you do." And I'm glad that you said that cuz I do. And I thought I was being crazy, but I'm like, I need to see what's going on. Of course you do. Of course you do. And the thing is, you know, that's for an investing thing. You don't look at your P&L because you've got your stop and you take profit. That's fine. You know, you can walk away. I don't walk away. I'm looking at my screen there and then. You have to remember that your P&L's your P&L. I trade big enough size, I'm not going to move the market. But I can shift the broker's book. So, if some other orders or some of the trades come
[01:06:54] in, my profit that was 10 grand in in in profit could be switched to 1 grand in profit in an instant. So, yeah, I'm I'm looking I'm looking. I've got a big close all button. And I'm looking. I'm watching the patterns in the P&L, how it jumps. And when you know when it comes right, you see a big jump, especially with my size kicks in for my average scalps. And then bang, I'm taking it. Because that that second's hesitation, something could be there 1 second and then it's gone. So, when you're short-term trading or trading retail, you have to look at your P&L. It's It's It's imperative.
[01:07:25] You've reached the end of this episode of Chat With Traders. But rest assured, there are more episodes loaded with real market insight and zero hype on the way soon. So, to stay updated with each great new release, subscribe to the podcast in iTunes. And we'd love it if you'd leave a rating and review. We'll catch you next time on Chat With Traders. [Music] [Music]
