# 281: Marsten Parker - The Purely Systematic Wizard Trader
# source: YouTube auto-captions (en-orig) https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=vhx3yeFBlNA

[00:00:00] And I experienced how addictive it could be to get you know I just like keep keep wanting to put on a trade and and see what happens. It's just like a slot machine really. You know, you get a dopamine hit from the wins and then it makes you want to just put on another one right away. Markets, speculation, and risk. This is the Chat With Traders podcast. Yes, that's right. This is Chat With Traders episode 281. Hey traders, this
[00:00:31] is Tessa. What's going on? How are things with the markets lately for you? We'd love to hear your thoughts. Share it with us. Feel free to email us at hello@chatwithtraders.com. It would be so awesome to hear from you or even better get on the Chat With Traders website and leave a voice message. After all, we are audio-based and always love to hear your actual voices. So, don't be shy. Before we introduce our guest today, please allow me to take a few minutes to do a quick shout-out to our Chat With Traders
[00:01:02] members. For those who don't already know, recently we made the difficult decision to close the online Chat With Traders community. When we launched this space back in November 2022, we wanted to create something truly special and different. A home where listeners of the Chat With Traders podcast could come together, connect, share ideas, and lift each other up. And we pictured a vibrant community of traders and aspiring traders supporting and lifting each other up. Patrick Peterson, Steve B, a
[00:01:34] big thank you to you. You have been a strong and positive driving force in the community. You're not only amazing and talented traders, but you have also inspired many of us in the trading room and outside of the trading room to stay motivated and continually to learn and improve. And building this community together has been an incredible journey and the lessons we've learned will stay with us. So, to everyone who's been part of the Chat With Traders community family, we
[00:02:05] hope with all our hearts that being here has added value to your trading journey, no matter how small. Moise, Barlow, Tim, Marilyn, Tiffany, Daniel, Stu, Peter, Michaela, Quinn, Chet, Murat, Jens, Nuno, Thomas, Brandon, Damiano, Mr. Dip, and many more of you. Please forgive me if I am not calling out all the names, but you know who you are. Your presence has meant the world to us and we're so grateful for every contribution, every
[00:02:36] interaction. This community has allowed us to connect with so many of you on a deeper level than we ever could have imagined sharing the highs and the lows, the struggles and triumphs that make the journey of trading so unique. So, keep in touch with us. Let us know how you're doing. Thank you again for being a part of this very special experience. And for those who haven't had the chance to be part of the Chat With Traders community, although we are closed now, who knows?
[00:03:07] We may reopen again in the future. So, make sure you are on our email distribution so we can keep you posted. Just get on the Chat With Traders website. Thank you again for allowing me some time to talk about the community. Now, I am excited to introduce a special guest. Today, Ian speaks with Marston Parker. Starting in classical violin and computer programming, Marston's path took a transformative turn when he
[00:03:38] ventured into trading. Despite a rocky start, his disciplined algorithmic-driven approach led to consistent returns earning him recognition in Jack Schwager's Unknown Market Wizards. We get to learn about his transition from discretionary trading to systematic trading and emphasizing the importance of statistical analysis over emotional decision-making. Marston used his programming skills to create fully automated trading systems
[00:04:09] to take advantage of breakouts, mean reversion, and IPO opportunities, and other strategies. Also, please note this recording was made before the sad news of Jim Simons' passing. Ladies and gentlemen, we are so pleased to present Marston Parker from Massachusetts. Well, Marston, welcome to Chat With Traders. Thank you. Where are you calling from? I'm in Reading, Massachusetts, which is
[00:04:41] about 12 miles north of Boston. Yeah, it's great to be here. I actually um have been in touch with Aaron Fifield about 10 years ago during the first days of the show and uh almost came on then, but I didn't have any kind of online presence, so I thought, "No, I don't think I'll do that." So, better late than never. Yeah, well, um you you happen to be fortunate enough to be the only purely systematic trader whose performance over the decades was sufficiently superior to make it into the book Unknown Market
[00:05:12] Wizards by Jack Schwager. Uh how did you get known to him? Yeah, I mean, I I have a feeling there are probably a lot of systematic traders with better performance, but who just uh weren't known to him or weren't interested in being in a book, but uh I I was lucky enough to be recommended. I didn't know he was making a new Market Wizards book at all or or seek to be in the book. I had been and still a member of a community online called StockBee, which I joined in 2013,
[00:05:44] I think, and the the fellow who runs that community, Brett Bond, somehow was in touch with Jack and was let known that Jack was looking for people for his new book and recommended a couple different people including me. The others who he recommended declined to be in the book, but I agreed. Uh so, that's how that happened. Uh and then of course as usual in Market Wizards, I had to send Jack all kinds of documentation about my track record. Luck- luckily, I had um you know, all my old brokerage
[00:06:15] statements going back 20 years, so uh so, that was fine. Uh and and as he wrote, my stats were really just barely qualified me, but somehow he decided to put me in. So, here I am. Oh, great. Thanks. Yeah, let's dive into your background. Kind of where did you grow up and what were your early interests in life? Yeah, well, I grew up here in the Boston area. As a teenager, I had two main interests, classical music and specifically violin,
[00:06:47] and computer programming. Uh and they they sort of competed for my attention throughout high school. And I ended up deciding to to try to pursue a career in music and I went to a conservatory in New York City and studied classical violin, but this was the early '80s when the personal computers were just being introduced and uh uh and I got one and so I ended up spending more and more of my time while while in school coding and less time practicing violin. So, by by I graduated, but it was clear that I wanted to go in the computer direction
[00:07:19] by the time I finished. So, I moved back to Boston, took a job at a computer store, and then eventually found employment at a at a software startup uh in 1984 and um uh yeah, worked for that worked for that company and two other companies. The third one was called Segue Software, s e g u e, and they they ended up going public in 1996 on NASDAQ, the symbol s e g u. And I was one of the earliest employees, so I
[00:07:51] owned about 4% of the company. So, I had some stock and that that's what got me interested in trading. What kind of uh job did you have at the at the software company that you had? I was a software developer, software engineer at at uh that was my profession from 1984 through 1997. Oh, wow, 13 13 years. And what kind of software did you did you write? It was it's I started out working on a VAX um mini computers and then
[00:08:23] transitioned to personal computers um software and it's basically it was tools for other developers. The first thing I built was was a an editor for a particular programming language that the company offered um for a a lot of the latter part of the career I was involved in building tools to support testing of software. So, so our customers would be QA engineers at other software companies. Yeah, Segue's main product was something called Silk Test, which I think was the
[00:08:54] leading thing in that category for a while. Uh-huh. And did you get a lot of satisfaction from being a programmer? Um I did, yeah. Yeah, I've always enjoyed building software and having people use the software that I build and so that that was satisfying. Yeah, so the famous Jim Simons, he was involved in the in the buyout of the company you worked at? Yeah, I think you pronounce it Simons. He was the third company, Segue Software,
[00:09:25] he was the chairman of the board and the largest investor in that company. He um at that time in the early '90s, he hadn't had you know, he had some success in his hedge fund business, but not quite not you know, nearly as much as he did later. And he was or maybe just on the side, he he he had a venture capital fund that so, he he was investing in I don't know how many in total, probably five or 10 software companies typically and and we happened to be one of them. When the buyout occurred, were you
[00:09:56] itching to retire at that point, or were you imagining yourself uh just getting another software job or no, I mean, it wasn't so much a buyout, it was a it was an actual initial public offering. So, so, so I mean, the the company did eventually get bought, but that was years after I had left. Um uh so, no, I wasn't really itching to to to to get bought or to do anything. I mean, it kind of was surprising when it became a possibility that we could go public. Uh we were a very small company. I mean, uh these days it could not have
[00:10:27] gone gone public. So, but yeah, at some point the we went public in the spring of '96, and then several months later there was a fairly major correction in the Nasdaq. The tech companies were um were struggling, and um I um kind of got got tired of of uh working there, really, and uh the and and I I I just got more and more obsessed with watching our stock, and and then started buying books about trading, and what getting involved in
[00:10:57] other stocks, and dabbling with trading strategies, and just kind of thought, okay, I'm going to leave for a while and try this as an experiment. You know, I could always go back to that company, or get a job at a different software company if I wanted to. But then I I did fairly well fairly soon, and the experiment went on for for quite a while, to the point where it was kind of too late to go back and get employed again. Any uh books come to mind uh that influenced you in the early stages? One of the earlier books I bought was
[00:11:28] called Trading for a Living. What's the name of that author? Is that Elder? El- yeah, Alexander Elder. Right, right. Yeah, yeah, yeah. And that I think just the very title was influential. It just it didn't occur to me that anybody traded for a living until I saw that book. And then I thought, oh, okay. So, that was one, but also that was just the the time when some online resources were first coming available. Like, there was a site called thestreet.com that I would read, and and there were starting to be some, you know, early versions of kind
[00:11:59] of like online user groups. I think Yahoo had a whole bunch of user groups, so I I would participate in some of those. Oh, yeah, there was a site called Silicon Investor, I think, that sort of like I might have participated in. So, I don't know. I was getting inputs from all over the place, and getting interested in in trading, so. Yeah. Uh so, tell us a little bit about your early trades, your early big winners and and losers, and how did they go early on? Well, early on, you know, I did some I opened a brokerage account,
[00:12:29] and you know, had my restricted shares converted to regular shares, so I could start to sell them and and have some trading capital, and and just started dabbling in some There was some I don't remember where I It must have been some other earlier book that I read that had it was more of a fundamental angle of of like, you know, kind of rotational investing based on things like PE to growth ratio, or stuff like that. You know, I found a way to do some scans for things like that online, maybe, or or
[00:12:59] with some I think I had a piece of software on my desktop computer called Window on Wall Street, or something like that. So, you know, I I would just put on a trade cuz I thought it met some criteria that that I had heard recommended. Oh, and I I was also watching, I think CNBC was was just kind of getting started at that time, and so I would watch that. I remember my my first big loser, this was in '97 when I was still employed and trading on the side, I I heard on CNBC
[00:13:30] uh what is it? Herman Miller company had beat their earnings expectation. So, I immediately bought the stock. Like like way larger position. I was like, oh, I They said it was good on CNBC, so I better take a really large position. And and it was one of those sell the news situations, apparently, so. I remember having a couple sleep sleepless nights on that one. So, yeah, that first year of trading in '97, I I think I ended up losing about 50 grand. And then at the end of that year, on
[00:14:00] that basis, I said, okay, I'll quit my job and trade for a living. Um I had no idea what I was doing. Well, I I was starting to get an idea that I could maybe make take a more systematic approach, and I was kind of I somehow gotten clued into the the fact that some people had trading systems and followed them, rather than just trying to you know, make discretionary decisions, and be right about things, which clearly wasn't working for me. I started corresponding with one person who was sharing some aspects of of his trading
[00:14:30] strategy in a series of articles on thestreet.com, guy named Gary B. Smith. And we just kept corresponding, and became friends, and eventually trading partners. And so, I followed his his systematic It was mostly systematic. There was some discretion in the selection of which stocks to buy or short, but then the exits were 100% mechanical. Since you were doing this for a living, uh did you have any expectations as to a targeted annual income or total return goal? I had a general concept of and and I
[00:15:03] remember um corresponding with with Gary about this, and kind of doing a sanity check with him of, you know, do you think I could consistently make 20% a year? And and he said, yeah, that should be easy to do. I had about a million of trading capital, so I got to figure if I could consistently make 20% a year, you know, even after taxes, be able to have more income than I had from my for- former job, and and maybe even, you know, grow the the account a little bit. So, I I kind of
[00:15:34] had a goal of being able to grow my account 5 or 10% a year after taxes and living expenses, which you know, now I understand you can't really have a have a income type goal from trading. It doesn't make any sense whatsoever. You know, you're going to have big swings up and down, and so on. But, you know, compared to many, I think I was I was in a pretty stable situation, cuz I had plenty of trading capital, and you know, and I also I I had paid off all of my debts, like my mortgage and so on, when the company went public. So, I had no debt, plenty
[00:16:06] of capital, so. And a career I could go back to. So, it it wasn't a huge risk at the time. I I just kind of viewed it as an experiment that I was that I was doing, and uh That book that you mentioned Trading for a Living, when I looked into that book, it appears to be a book about discretionary trading. Did you kind of set aside those early books that you got into, and then focused more and more on systematizing your approach? Yes, I pretty much
[00:16:36] you know, I'd gone through a lot of different books, and looking for really clues about how to proceed. And you know, and I found thing clues here and there, but but like you said, most of them are about discretionary. There There weren't any books there that that said, you know, here here are all the exact rules of a trading system that that's highly likely to work. I mean, I don't even think I don't know when some of the first books about trend following came out. I don't think that there were many yet back then. There may have been. I I pretty much set that aside, and and adopted the method that Gary Smith was
[00:17:07] was using, and then gradually tried to systematize that method. Uh in our pre-call, you mentioned that you hate trading. Uh why is that? Yeah, I mean, I may have overstated that some, but I I I don't really have the the person the typical personality of a trader who you know, who who who is kind of enjoys placing bets on things, or you know, likes the challenge of of trying to make correct calls about the direction of things of price going, or or anything
[00:17:39] like that. I mean, I did I do enjoy it, and particularly did early on in terms of the as a kind of puzzle of, you know, how can you come up with a strategy that that made money in the past, and more importantly, will continue to make money in the future. So, I I enjoy the the kind of research in the of that aspect of it, you know, of testing different strategies, trying to come up with ideas, and so on. But the actual process of trading of, you know, placing trades, and I mean, I kind of I went down that rabbit hole a little bit early on. I
[00:18:10] even spent about a month doing very active discretionary day trading in Nasdaq stocks in 1997, during that losing period, and I experienced how addictive it could be to you know, you just like keep keep wanting to put on a trade, and and see what happens. It's just like a slot machine, really. You know, you get a dopamine hit from the wins, and then it makes you want to just put on another one right away, and So, you know, fortunately, I was self-aware enough to to to observe myself in that process, and realize that this was going to be dangerous
[00:18:41] a slippery slope for me if I continued in that direction. So, I I said, no. At heart, I'm very conservative. You know, I'm not interested in in losing a lot of money, and not I'm not the kind of person who will who will will ever make a big bet on anything. Do you think if you had beginner's luck from the beginning, say in 1997, and had good gains early on, would you have still started the process of moving to a systematic approach? Um is that just kind of in your nature? Yeah. I think it's in my nature. Yeah, I mean, it
[00:19:12] Yeah, as I mentioned that when I started trading with Gary, we our method was had a discretionary element in that, you know, we'd run a scan, well, not not so much run, but get the Investors Business Daily newspaper, and look at the table of stocks that had unusual volume the prior day. So, we would go through the charts of those, and he would make mostly him would make some kind of subjective judgment of how the chart looked, and kind of rank them on that basis for for what are the best entries to to
[00:19:43] take. And and I tried to grasp that what he was doing there, and I always found it sort of arbitrary. It was so right away I wanted to I wanted to be able to test it. And I also wanted to be able to test the exits we were using and see if we could come up with better ones for the given the set of entries we had actually taken, what different exits would have worked better. So, yeah, even if I had succeeded initially with the with some of the discretionary type approaches I was doing, I probably would have written code to test it fairly soon. As a musician, do you see a link between
[00:20:15] musical reading and playing skills and systematic trading? But the things I learned from from trying to be a violinist, you know, concentration, ability to to stay focused at a task, which didn't come that easily to me, but I worked at it. The just the discipline of practicing every day. There's there's some there's some overlap there. Yeah, there's a lot of of uh structure or you might even say a system behind behind music. You know, some of
[00:20:45] which I learned about in school and so on that So, you know, there probably make some some connections there. I don't know if it's super specific. Yeah. So, let's dive into your early algo trading. Can you share with us a little bit about some of your early algo strategies? Well, you first started off as systematic, right? Were you uh manually entering in uh your orders or how soon did you actually go to an algo approach? So, basically, from So, I started trading with this Gary
[00:21:16] Smith in 1998, February 1998. And we were trading you know, one pair of strategies, basically long and short, kind of asymmetrical, uh not exactly symmetrical, but uh it's basically buying breakouts uh with unusual volume or shorting breakdowns and then setting a bracket, like a target and a stop, and whichever one gets hit first. Uh and then the the only thing that was a little unusual about that strategy as opposed to classical trend following is that the the stop is larger than the target. You know, and and it so it had a
[00:21:47] fairly high win rate, like a 70% win rate. I think we were using like a 5% uh target and a 7% stop initially. You know, later I I discovered other ways to measure those things like ATRs, but um that's what we were doing initially. And I basically traded that that that exact system, those two that one pair of long and short strategies, just with minor variations all the way until 2015. I would I wasn't doing I wasn't really
[00:22:18] doing anything else. You know, I kept over-optimizing them and tweaking the parameters. But basic concept was the same. So, I I I don't think all the optimizing and parameter changing I did really made very much difference. I could have chosen different parameters and hit maybe at random I would have had better results or worse results or or whatever, but the basic concept was the same. You're buying breakouts on unusual volume and and setting a target and a stop. And I think there was also a time stop, so there's basically three three components to the exit. So, to answer
[00:22:49] your question, when we first started this in '98, we were we would actually phone in our orders to a broker. You know, there wasn't even an online platform where like Interactive Brokers is now where you could actually do that. Schwab maybe started to have an an TD Ameritrade that came a year or two later. When we first started, there really wasn't much. Uh so, we were yeah, we were using this online broker. I mean, it it was kind of an agency, a small broker in New Jersey. So, we call
[00:23:20] in the orders. Then, you know, since we were doing this every day, we asked if we could email them the orders. So, we we started emailing them the orders instead. And then I ended up, you know, writing code to generate those emails. So, that that was my first automation was actually um code that that generated and sent emails to a human broker who would then do the order entry. I actually stayed with that broker until 2013. They were called Trade Managed Capital and earlier than that they had been called Yamner. I think we were probably their only retail clients and all their other
[00:23:51] clients were hedge funds. Um but we were sort of behaving like hedge funds, so they took us on. And so, they gave us this software and uh and I changed my code to use that. But and then in 2013, I switched to Interactive Brokers just cuz I was paying too much commissions basically with the other people. And the and and the slippages were getting worse. They they had been giving us I think very good fills um early on, but the slippages were getting worse. And so, I switched to Interactive Brokers.
[00:24:22] And then, you know, coincidentally, I went kind of went through a rough patch for the next several years. But I don't think it was cuz I changed brokers. I think it was because the strategies were were winding down and not working as well anymore. Uh so, to be clear for for what, since 1999-2000 era till 2014 or so, I mean, a good long stretch that you were doing two basic strategies, correct? Yeah, or really two sides of one strategy, you might say. Two sides of one strategy. So, let's dive into that a little bit more. What
[00:24:54] So, you're on one side, you're buying breakouts on heavy volume, like Yeah, yeah, basically I mean, in the early days when we would do the scanning, you know, every day after the market closed, after data was available. So, you're basically scanning, you know, all all common US common stocks that meet like like a liquidity criteria, price and liquidity filters. Uh for yeah, kind of three things that, you know, unusual volume, like at least two times average or three times average
[00:25:25] volume, a significant move, you know, not like up 5 cents on two times average volume, but, you know, up several percent uh in one day. And then the pre prior to that, it should not have already been overbought. So, you know, ideally it's it's like a flat congestion area and then a breakout from there. Um so, that's the basic setup. I mean, it's probably the most well-known breakout setup in the universe. Um there's nothing original about it. I think Gary got it. He started by reading the works of William O'Neil, uh How to
[00:25:57] Make Money in Stocks, and basically took the CAN SLIM method, discarded all the fundamentals, and changed the the profit target from 20% to 5%. And that was about it. So, that's essentially what we were running. And then he he added the short side, which O'Neil wasn't doing any shorting and hadn't even published any his book about shorting yet back then. So, those I think the most innovative thing was was that Gary had added the short side, which where where he was looking for kind of a an even more big breakdown. He used to describe it as like it should look like
[00:26:27] you just broke your arm and it was dangling. So, the the the criteria for entering shorts was more stringent and required a a greater gap down on heavier volume. he was looking for for for really a visible gap. And the way he used to say it is that the stock should look broken. Most of these entries would be after a negative earnings surprise or a negative earnings pre-announcement. I mean, that was typically in those days, you know, that that was the news that would lead to that pattern. Yeah, and
[00:26:59] how long did you typically hold these positions, both long and short? Did you have targets? Yes, yes, we as the moment we play Yeah, initially, we would we would basically place an order to buy or short at the open at market with an attached bracket of a target and a stop order, you know, whichever comes first. So, you know, one cancels the other kind of situation. Um And those would be calculated in advance as as you know, 5%
[00:27:31] favorable or 7% adverse. So, in the case of a long, it would be 5% up and 7% down, vice versa for the shorts. And that was it. And then you just leave them alone until they hit one or the other, which would typically be in those days anywhere from that same day to a week or two later. But most mostly, it was within a few days. I mean, it doesn't it doesn't take that long for a a stock that just had an unusual move on unusual volume to move another 5% one
[00:28:02] way or the other. Um so, so yeah, it's it was really a a few days was the average holding period, maybe three, four days. What were your thoughts about holding it for relatively short amount of time, you know, given the old adage, the trend is your friend? And did you have a kind of a reasoning for now let's get out early earlier than than normal? Yeah, I mean, our reasoning was that we want to be in what is moving right now.
[00:28:32] And that that keeps changing every day or every few days. You know, whereas if you buy a breakout and then just hold it until some longer term stop is hit, you know, you might be tying up your money in that one stock for a long time, some of which it's not really going anywhere. Gary's philosophy that I adopted is is that you know, your capital is sort of like inventory and you want to just keep turning it over and putting it in where the action is. You know, within reason. I mean, in those days, that kind of time frame was about as small as you could get, you know, without trading costs
[00:29:04] totally overtaking. Cuz remember, back then, stocks were still priced in fractions and the tick size was 1/8 of a dollar, which is pretty large spread. And then and the commissions were were like I mean, if we were trading one or 2,000 share lots, the commission would be, you know, 50 or 60 dollars per round trip trade. So, um Yeah, that's pricey. So, you know, it's so there there is kind of a sweet spot where 500 to 1,000 round trip trades per year, you know, it was was workable. Gary was
[00:29:35] less conservative than me. So, that that year, 1998, our first year of trading together, he made 80% and I made 50%. It was a good good year for us. Uh you mentioned in in interview that you like to have large numbers of trades to be statistically significant. Do you tweak your system so that it will generate a likely minimum number of trades per year? Um, you mentioned I think 500 or 1,000 trades per year. Is that kind of the sweet spot to be statistically I if I look at a backtest, I want to see, you know, thousands of trades to to
[00:30:08] believe that that there's there's an edge to it. I mean, if if if you see a backtest that only produces 50 trades, you know, and there's one or two outliers in there, it doesn't really tell you anything about the rules that that led to those trades. So, that's what I I was typically looking for, yeah. Yeah, again, there's kind of it Well, it depends on on what data you have. I mean, I've I've generally always worked with daily bars. That kind of 500 to 1,000 round trips a year, uh, holding for a few days is kind of as as low as you can go with daily bars. I mean, obviously, you can't really model intraday trading on daily on daily bars
[00:30:40] or even, um, even a a day trading Well, there's one day trading strategy you can where where you enter with a limit order and exit with MOC. Other than that, How how time-consuming is coding everything yourself? Is it I imagine it's a big upfront investment, but uh, later on, how much time do you spend both in the early stages and later on? I don't know how many I've I've probably spent many, many thousands of hours on on the coding, but it's not like I'm starting from scratch every time I have a a trading idea. I mean, I from the
[00:31:11] beginning, I built a general-purpose backtesting program, and then later a general-purpose automation program. Uh, most of that time it was in a in Excel, but, um, but now I have a standalone program. So, so now, I mean, given the software that I have, if I want to test a new idea, it I can do it in a few minutes. And and if I want to start trading a new strategy, I can do it with very little additional coding cuz I have the infrastructure. But, yeah, early on, I mean, it it just kind of evolved. There wasn't some big task I had to
[00:31:43] complete before I could trade systematically. it gradually evolved from mostly manual to to semi-systematic to I think I started being fully automated from my Excel VBA code, uh, at the beginning of 2000. I don't think I've placed a manual trade order since since 1999. Let's go back to the kind of the timeline of you used um, your first system until how long did you use your very first system without making major
[00:32:13] modifications to it? I was always tweaking it, so it's it everything just kind of you know, gradually evolved. I mean, and so so we had that very good year in '98. '99, I was I I was really getting much more assistant systematized. I was I had become disillusioned with the chart judgment process with our eyes and and, you know, wanted to make rules for for what the data should look like. So, I kept changing those rules and, um, you
[00:32:44] know, ended up having a fairly mediocre year in 1999, which is unusual cuz most traders had a fabulous year in that year, uh, except for ones who were exclusively short. I I went back and looked at all the times I had changed the rules and realized I would have done better off leaving them how they were at the start of the year. So, I made this resolution of, "Okay, going into 2000, I'm going to trade one set of rules all year and not change it all year." And and I actually did that. And as it happened, I had had my best year yet. So, that worked well. Um,
[00:33:15] after that, I had many periods where I where I would frequently tweak things. You you fall into a I think everybody's susceptible to this where when you're in a drawdown, you say, "Well, how could I have avoided this drawdown or made it less severe?" And you find some rules that would have made it less severe and you put them in place. I mean, I was totally naive. I didn't know anything about overfitting or whatever. I just did that and, um, you know, sometimes it it helped and sometimes it didn't. My usual process would be, "Okay, I'm in a drawdown. Let's retest and let's see if I can come up with a new idea that would
[00:33:46] have made the drawdown better or would have made recent performance better and put that in." And then there were a couple times when I couldn't find any parameters that would have done better. And then I thought, "Oh, shoot, the whole approach is broken now. So, what do I do?" And one of those was was actually, yeah, I said I had this great year in 2000. And so, of course, I kept running the same rules going into 2001. And I immediately had a 20% drawdown within the first month. And I'd never had a drawdown that large before. So, that that caused me to, you know, stop for a
[00:34:18] little while and reevaluate and I ended up putting something in place that was fairly similar, but I I think I changed to, um, that I would get a real-time data service and enter my, um, do my entries before the close rather than at the next open. Cuz cuz in backtesting, I had figured out that would have done a lot better, uh, recently. Uh, so I made that change. And then I I did it an analogous thing when things stopped working again in in 2005 of of, um, switching to, uh,
[00:34:50] to get to getting in even earlier. So, I would I would look starting about 5 minutes after the open for the stocks that seemed to be making big moves on unusual volume and and buy them then. So, I ran it that way. And that that did did well in '06 and '07 were my neck my other two best years besides 2000. And, um, and even in '08 was okay. '09 '10 was quite good. '11 '12 it '12. Basically, the the short side, when we got into that to that decade, especially after
[00:35:21] starting 2013, the short side completely failed. And, um, and prior to that, more than half of my total profit was from the short side. You know, if if I had just been trading my long side all that time, I wouldn't have even beat the market at all. Like, you know, I I would have been better off buying and holding uh, long and then just shorting against it, but I I didn't know that. Maybe not in '08, but other than that, yeah. I see. Why do you think the the short side was hurt in 2012? What What was it
[00:35:52] about the markets that, uh, made that year different? Well, I I think, uh, more and more other traders started, uh, adopting the, you know, buy the dip, uh, approach. B- Basically, mean, you know, short-term mean reversion became a very popular strategy. So, uh, so the kind of sharp breakdown pattern that was my short entry signal became a long entry signal for many traders. Um, Uh, oh, wow. So, so, yeah, they they would So, that's what I kept seeing, you know, I would I would be end up shorting at
[00:36:24] near the low and, and then having it go against me, uh, you know, more and more often. You know, it wasn't like I suddenly got all these huge losses. It just, um, you know, the stats eroded. The the the win rate got lower and the average loss got got larger than, you know, than the average win and so on. Uh, that that's what typically happens. This, uh, buy the, uh, BTFD, uh, buy the dip phenomenon. Um, did this phenomenon exist
[00:36:54] term, BTFD. Uh, did this phenomenon exist in other roaring, uh, bull markets of the past or was it an additional nuance of that particular market? Well, I think it I think it became it was a fairly new thing that started in in that around, uh, 2012, 2013. Um, I don't remember. I mean, of course, prior to that, there were, you know, value investors who who were, you know, would know what what stocks they wanted to own
[00:37:25] and wait for them to to be cheap in order to buy them. So, so, you know, in in a longer time trading time frame, you might say, uh, short dip dip buying has always been part, you know, buy low, sell high. That that's always been part of the, uh, the investment landscape, but I think it became a popular short-term trading strategy mostly after, um, I maybe even in '08. I mean, what I I ended up, uh, you know, adding mean reversion to to what I do in 2014.
[00:37:58] And when I did the backtesting, I found that e- even the long side would have done great in in '08. The the long dip buying. So, I think it was going on for a while, but it probably reached some critical mass where where my my particular, um, shorting setup didn't just stop working. But, I don't know really. You you never can know exactly why you don't you don't know who else is doing what in the market. So, you you know, best you can do is guess why something doesn't work. Yeah, are there
[00:38:28] any objective or subtle indicators that start to appear when a strategy has stopped working? No, it's a it's very hard to, um, pin that down. It's really more of a more of a judgment call. Yeah, I that's where where I'm I'm discretionary is in strategy level decisions. I I still have, uh, in in the backtesting software that I sell, I I include, um, at one of my many example scripts is the the long essentially the long and short strategy that I traded from the
[00:38:59] late '90s through the mid-2000s, like till after 2012. And, um, yeah, and it you could see when you run that backtest all the way back to the '90s how it did very well, uh, and then went flat for a long time. A- And then it mysteriously did really well in 2022 when most other short-term stock trading strategies did poorly. So, you just you never know when something is is going to start working or or stop working, really. It's it's it's a judgment call. So, my understanding is that you, uh,
[00:39:30] added a mean reversion strategy, uh, to your repertoire of, uh, tools. became aware of that concept, uh, in that stock before I was a member of, uh, 2013, 2014. Um, I and did a lot of research and back testing of it. I think I also was aware of or became aware of the writing of Larry Connors who who's probably Connors and Caesar Alvarez are the people who have done the most publishing on the on the topic of short-term mean reversion.
[00:40:01] Yeah, I I found some strategies I liked and and so in 2014 I divided my capital in two and kept running my old strategies in half and my new mean reversion strategies in the other half. The the old strategies were flat and the mean reversion half had a very good year. So then in 2015 I just decided to abandon the old ones and put everything in in this long and short mean reversion strategy pair that I had built and I had a great start to that year and then a really nasty drawdown.
[00:40:32] What what what was the cause of the the drawdown and what was the catalyst? Was it the mean reversion part of your strategy that Well, I was only but so from the start of 2015 I was just running long long and short mean reversion with all with my whole account. So and so each position was 10% of my account. No, I I take it back. I was still trading fixed shares not fixed percentage then but but it was a it was on average around that size. 10 to 15. Really I mean all it takes for in a typical mean reversion strategy
[00:41:04] you're buying you're catching a falling knife. You know, you're buying a stock that's dropping or shorting a stock that's ripping higher. You know, you've based on some calculations that that it's already overbought or already oversold vice versa. And if you try to put stops in those strategies they don't work at all. You you basically have to rely on on the stats of you know, if you if you take a thousand trades and that are overbought in this way, you know, on average
[00:41:35] you'll make money but every now and then you'll you'll take a larger loss. And then and you just manage that by keeping your position sizes small enough so that so that even if you know, a stock went down like 50% more from where you bought it, you know, you might only have a two or three percent drawdown on your account and that would be that would only happen once or twice a year. So So the drawdowns in those strategies happen when there's some typically there's some kind of market event going on where where you get you know, serial correlation of those bad trades. So you you got several
[00:42:08] significant losers in a row. And and that's what happened in the second half of 2015 especially in August. I mean you the the market was was very bad in in August 2015. And that's when you had your big drawdown? Yeah, it had started I think it might have started in June or July. A lot of it is random. I mean I I think I had one chunk of the drawdown in June. There was one where I was shorting Chinese stocks that were ripping. There
[00:42:39] was one where I was buying biotech stocks that were plunging after Oh, I think like Hillary Clinton was running for president and made us some announcement that she was going to crack down on the pharmaceutical industry and the whole biotech sector fell apart and but I kept buying the dip cuz that's what my rule said to do. So basically when you when you have some something like that where there's a a news-based catalyst or or a you know, a feeding frenzy like the like the meme stock craze that happened later. You just end up having too many large
[00:43:10] losers next to each other. You know, whereas when you back test that kind of strategy that the large you see some large outlier losses but they're spread out most typically and so the stats still look really good. But then in real life when they happen one after the other you and then when you have several periods like that interspersed with flat periods you know, they all add up to a to a significant drawdown. So my I mean starting my drawdown had started in mid-2012 when my that was my equity high
[00:43:42] the summer of 2012 all the way and it you know, I had some recovery periods and then some further losses and then some recovery periods. So basically my equity was in a downtrend from mid-2012 all the way until 2015 and added up to about 45% total drawdown. Wow. Is that period? Yeah, curious how much does does a strategy have to erode in performance over time before you look to tweak the system or just dump it entirely?
[00:44:12] I I pretty much always set a 20% drawdown is my kind of system stop or my off switch where where I'll at least pause if not stop for a while and re-evaluate and you know, then it's I mean then that happened several times during that period and then at some point you you either say okay, well, I I think I've got a new idea that'll do better. So I'm going to restart. Mhm. But of course you're not back you can't wait till you get back to an equity high before restarting by definition cuz you have to be trading to
[00:44:42] get back to an equity high. So um So so at some point you just have to keep you know, at any given point you're either believe you have something that's going to work and go back in or or you throw in the towel and say I'm done forever. Which I I thought I had done that in 2016 and I I stopped for three months actually and but then I've got all this software, all these tools, all this experience. You know, just see what I can do.
[00:45:14] Put a more conservative strategies with fewer parameters in place and So that's how you got out of the 45% drawdown is is to simplify your system? Right, simplify make make it more take take smaller positions and diversify more. You know, I had just been trading the two mean reversion systems but then I went back and added You know, they my old breakout systems were still no good but but I found a new long breakout system by narrowing the universe to recent IPOs which ended up
[00:45:46] being my best performing strategy for the next several years. And then and added a a new I did go back to something like my old shorting strategy but with some with some differences. Uh In particular I rather than just buy shorting on the breakdown I I shorted on a little rebound after the breakdown to get a bit a bit of a better price advantage. So those four together kind of like my core four strategies that I'm that I'm still running and that they did
[00:46:16] you know, mostly well since then. Do you program any of your systems to avoid either highly shorted stocks or any of the meme stocks and how do you screen these out of your system if you do want to avoid them? I do have some yeah, I have a well, I have a upper volatility filter. Actually use it on both sides. Uh which which I mean there's a couple ways to approach that. I mean one way is to to restrict your trading to a to a narrow a
[00:46:47] narrower universe like the you know, the constituents of a major index for example. So some people do that. Um I've always found I can get better stats by by having my universe be all publicly traded US common stocks and then applying a liquidity filter. The main difference between this universe and say the Russell 3000 is that that the the broader universe will include a lot of ADRs. So it's actually you're actually getting a lot of uh foreign stocks you know, hence my issue with Chinese names that I had mentioned earlier.
[00:47:19] So oh shoot, I've sort of lost my thread of thought now. What what did you ask me? Oh yeah, yeah. So the meme so a few years ago we had the the meme stock stocks, right. So so my volatility filter helps I mean I did I did take a bit of a hit when that first started. I remember luckily I I avoided GameStop but I think BBBY uh maybe AMC. I you know, I had some some significant losing trades in a couple of those. Um At the same time my my IPO strategy was was on fire. So it kind of
[00:47:50] canceled out. Like I didn't notice those big losses quite as much as I would have. They didn't cause an overall account drawdown but but that strategy was definitely doing poorly and and I was you know, aware of what was going on and with the meme stock craze cuz everybody was. So But by that point, you know, I I had been marketing my back testing software for a while. We had a fairly active forum. So there's a lot of conversation about it as well. And um You know, we you know, we started just the first thing we did was to just build
[00:48:22] a an an exclude list in a text file of you know, we're just not going to trade these symbols cuz they're the ones that these these idiots are buying. And um so um So so I did that. The the other thing you can do that I that I also do sometimes is look at the brokers like margin requirements or short borrow rates and and just avoid especially you know, I figure if if IB says you need 100% margin or more. I mean I've seen stocks where they want 400% margin to short it.
[00:48:52] Wow. That that's crazy. Right. That tells you that their risk management people have said this is this is dangerous. So why why would I want to do that? So so yeah, you can that that's another thing you can do is let the broker give you some clues about what's too risky to be be shorting. Right, right. So tell us about your IPO strategy. How how does that differ from your other strategies? It's it's it's so simple that it's stupid. I mean really the idea is to just well, define an IPO
[00:49:23] as as a a stock that only has a limited number of of days in its trading history and then buy it when it closes that new all-time high. Mhm. You know, and then sell it if it has a like a one or two-day low, you know, fairly fairly tight. I I I don't use stop I've never used stop orders in any of my trading strategies. I use stop rules, but you know, on a closing basis. Basically, I just don't want to be taken
[00:49:54] out by intraday noise. And also stop orders have uh more slippage than any other type of orders, so so yeah, I'll I'll get out at the close. Um You you sell out, you're saying um so how long would you when you buy the the IPO, it's hitting a new high, uh then how long would you typically hold it if it's a if it's running, you know, day after day going higher and higher and Well, they really I mean, they they typically are I I I I have a profit target on that strategy as well. So I'll hold it till it hits the target. And and then, you know, it might have a
[00:50:26] down day and then make another new high and then I might buy it again. Now, that strategy worked very well. Um I started it in 2017 and it worked, you know, well enough through 2017, '18, '19. Uh and then it really hit it out of the park in the middle of 2020 through the middle of 2021, uh when everything was kind of on fire. I mean, practically any strategy worked during that time period, so it's not really saying anything. But since uh since the uh end of 2021, it's just been
[00:50:58] flat. But you know, I mean, a good thing about that approach is when the when the market's correcting, there there are fewer IPOs cuz companies just cancel their IPOs. So it kind of has a built-in regime filter of its own. Uh a lot of people focus on on trading IPOs. I'm not sure I mean, part of the the success in the 2020 and 21 were all the SPACs, which is kind of no longer a thing. I think there's there's one I just saw the other day. Three-letter symbol starting with I where it got canceled and it dropped like 80% in one day uh after a run-up.
[00:51:31] Anyway, yeah, it I think it could be a while before that strategy works. I mean, I'm still running it, but it's just been flat for about 2 years now. It's not doing anything. So uh going back to your mean reversion strategy, uh does your system differentiate between an earnings release gap down on massive volume versus a steady multi-day drop on above average volume not tied to earnings. Uh would your mean reversion strategy play a big gap down influenced by volume? It it would only if if the stock had
[00:52:04] already been falling for several days and then had a big gap down, it would be then then I might buy it there. Um that would be like a capitulation type thing, but I mean, the the the setup I use will typically not choose anything that was like at a new high and then suddenly had a big gap down, which which is my old short setup. And those did work well in um like 2013 and and around there, but but uh I think I don't know. They they might work well now. I I'm not I have no awareness of
[00:52:36] whether it's earnings or not. I don't I don't pull in any news, fundamentals, earnings dates, whatever. I mean, I'm really I'm literally just taking price history and and and when price does the thing I'm looking for it to do, then that's my signal. Mhm. So Yeah, I I clearly uh you know, all of my trading strategies are basically looking for unusual volatility. Um like I said, you know, from from the beginning, we wanted to be in what was
[00:53:07] moving at any given time. Um and and so clearly, I'll get more more trades during earning season than not during earning season. But there there's some amount of earning season every quarter. I mean, you know, the the big ones are are are the the usual, you know, March uh June and so on, but uh I mean, April, July. But some many companies are on a offset fiscal year, so you you get a certain lump of earnings every month. Mhm. Um I you mentioned earlier about
[00:53:39] curve fitting and optimization. What what are the primary kind of dangers um one should look out for uh so that they don't get sucked in by this, you know, attractive uh shiny object? Well, the the number one is don't even try to build a strategy for one symbol. I mean, there's no way you can build a strategy for a single symbol without over fitting it, in my opinion. And and unless you're talking about very short-term intraday, you know, I mean, if if you have tick
[00:54:11] data and or one-minute bars and can go back several years, you know, maybe uh you can find something that works consistently, but um and I had that instinct from the very beginning was to I basically I want my system to be modeling a process where I'm scanning the whole market every day for for for that day's trades, so that it's always a different set of stocks that I'm trading every day. I mean, if I if I look at, you know, do it like a buy symbol backtest of my of my systems, I mean, they'll be fairly few trades in
[00:54:43] any one symbol in the course of a year. They'll be hundreds of different symbols in total. So that's one that's the easiest way to avoid over fitting is to do portfolio-based approach, not a single single stock approach. You know, what I see a lot of people do is is, you know, or like, I want to find a strategy that would have caught the most possible gains out of Tesla in the last 3 years. You know, or or right now you see people doing that with Bitcoin, which is pretty dumb cuz it's not going to keep repeating. Uh you know, that like that was a thing
[00:55:13] that happened and it's going to be a different a different stock or or thing next time. So avoid that. I mean, and then other than that, you know, it's just keeping your total number of parameters or degrees of freedom, as the quants would say, um small. I don't do optimization for the most part. I I'll use the optimizer to to uh go over a fairly small set of parameters or just kind of study how a parameter impacts the results, but I I don't do the classic thing of run
[00:55:44] the optimization over every possible combination and find the best stats and choose that one as the thing I want to run. Mhm. So basically, you avoid curve fitting by not curve fitting. Right, right, right. So uh I I've read that um backtesting, the issue problems with backtesting, uh often we backtest a system that will yield much higher returns and smaller drawdowns than typically experienced with live trading. Well, what is it
[00:56:14] about that process? Um why why does that happen? Are we not looking at enough long enough time frame um for this? And is that inherent? It happens because when you backtest, you keep trying different things and discarding the ones that work less well and keeping the ones that work better. And it after do it doesn't take too many iterations of that before you come up with something that works better than is likely to happen in the future. That's kind of inevitable. I mean, I I just over the over the
[00:56:45] years of learned to assume that my results going forward are not going to match what the backtest indicates. In fact, my rule of thumb is is half the return and twice the drawdown. Uh-huh. Um so it so unless I I'm content with that, I I I typically won't run something. I mean, that rule of thumb probably shows that I'm over fitting as well, but uh I I think there's no way to avoid it. I mean, as soon as you run your second test, you're you've begun the over fitting process. Right?
[00:57:19] Right, right. It um is there a way to measure different types of bull and bear markets with subtle granularity, so we can have an earlier detection of the conditions that could cause drawdowns in our strategy, so that we get, you know, different we don't just simply say, well, this was during a bull market or this is what during a bear market. Well, what type of bull market, what type of bear market? How did this bull market and bear market different was different from past bull and bear markets? Is there a way to kind of get that uh unique granularity of that particular
[00:57:51] market, so that we can understand greater what's going on? There may be. I know that some people have done work in that area. I think Van Tharp had a whole way of classifying different market regimes like that. Uh you know, I I mean, the simplest is just a binary market regime, you know, bull or bear, like is it above or below the 200-day moving average? But but yeah, you can go from there. You can do I think there's like a four-way thing of bull with high volatility, bull with low volatility, bear with high volatility,
[00:58:22] bear with low volatility. Uh and there's probably other dimensions you could add. And then and then you have to backtest that against you know, you have to pick a strategy and try it in each of those regimes and see how it did. And is that indicative of what will happen in the future? Maybe. You kind of if you want to use regime filtering in in the in these kind of systems, you have to kind of decide from the beginning that that's what you're going to do. Start with a regime filter in place and then put your rules on top of it because if you optimize some trading rules and then
[00:58:53] try to apply a regime filter, it'll always almost always make it look worse cuz you've already kind of accounted for that in the trading rules themselves. Since you were interviewed in the uh Unknown Market Wizards, um say 2023 and so far in 2024, uh how how have you been how have you been doing? Well, basically, uh you know, my my last equity peak was was the middle of 2021. Um You know, I I had a bit of a drawdown in the or end of 2021 and then had a flat year
[00:59:25] in 2022. And I had a another drawdown at the start of '23 and it and then flat since then. I'm up slightly this year. So basically I'm no longer achieving market wizard results in in the last few years. But you know, then again, there were several years in the in the past the period that's documented in the book when my results weren't that great either. I mean, it's he's looking for overall stats
[00:59:57] over a long term. So but you know, the one way to look at it is I had an extreme outlier period of from mid-2020 through mid-2021 where I had the best 12-month results I've ever had. And then and now my equity's mean reverted since then back to its uh usual trend. Uh kind of kind of 20% average. Mhm. Uh so why do you think more traders don't go systematic? Uh are the barriers to entry or learning curve
[01:00:27] are they high? Not quite as exciting as for the adrenaline junkies. All those things. Yeah, I mean it you know, it's the the old cliche of finding an approach to trading that fits your personality. I mean the ones more likely to go systematic are the ones who don't care so much about the the gambling feeling of putting on a trade and and don't care about you know, wanting to be right. You know, like your typical global macro kind of trader who likes to do all this analysis about
[01:00:58] what's happening in the world and make the correct call about what stocks, bonds, and golds are going to do and you know, get pleasure. It It sort of comes down to what what gives you pleasure, what makes your dopamine fire probably. So um you know, from from me the the actual trading process of put you know, putting on one trade. Like I don't even care what my individual trades are. I know I have some positions open right now, but I couldn't tell you what the symbols are. I can't remember. I don't I didn't even look. I I just I literally
[01:01:28] don't care about an individual trade. I care about the stats. You know, so so what gives me pleasure is is um finding a strategy that feels robust to me and has had good stats in the past and then have it putting it on and having it keep working um over time. Uh but more than that working on the back testing software and you know, improving the software itself actually gives me more pleasure than anything related to trading. So I've I've kind of So part of why my results are flat is I've really been neglecting my own trading system research recently.
[01:02:00] I'm putting all my focus in working on my software cuz I have over 700 users now who who like to use it and I I just really like uh you know, supporting them and it's kind of like I'm back in the software business, but I'm still trading too cuz I have money to invest and I don't know of another way to do it. So I do it that way. And so your trading software does what? Helps users do back testing testing yeah, back testing tool and then I also have a uh an automation tool that you know, integrates with interactive brokers and
[01:02:32] places the orders that the software generates for for the strategies that have been modeled. Yeah, it makes it fairly easy to to build a system that combines multiple strategies and and see what the results would have been in the past. Trade it going forward. Yeah, so so that's kind of your your passion currently is the working tweaking your software and and communicating with your fellow members on their strategies and so forth. Yes, for sure.
[01:03:03] Yeah. Well, great. Well, thank you Marcin for coming on chat with traders. My pleasure. Thank you for having me. Yeah. Yeah, how how can our listeners get in touch with you? They My website is mhptrading.com. Uh and so that's where you can you can find out about my software and actually there's links to my all the other podcasts I've been on and this one will soon be on there as well. Great. I'm on Twitter also known as X as Mars10p. That's m a r s 1 0 p. Those are
[01:03:36] the best ways to find me. Okay, fantastic. Thanks Marcin. Thank you. You've reached the end of this episode of Chat with Traders, but rest assured there are more episodes loaded with real market insight and zero hype on the way soon. So to stay updated with each great new release, subscribe to the podcast in iTunes and we'd love it if you leave a rating and review. We'll catch you next time on Chat with Traders.
