# 157: Alex, @TAGRtrades – What This Day Trader Learned After Returning 1400% in One Year
# source: YouTube auto-captions (en-orig) https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=ukCJ5J9N4vw

[00:00:00] Chat with Traders episode 157 is supported by Birch. If you're someone who gives the credit card a good workout, then did you know the average person misses out on $300 worth of rewards every year simply because they're not using the right cards. A new app called Birch helps you get the most out of your cards and earn more rewards on every purchase. Download Birch, b i r
[00:00:33] c h, in the App Store and sign up for free today. Now, I've also been asked to put in the good word for Daymond John. You know, the dude from Shark Tank, the Queens entrepreneur who created a multi-billion dollar company. He's now started a podcast of his own and he's linking up with some cool cats, Gary Vaynerchuk, Tyler the Creator, plus other musicians and athletes who I'm sure you'll know who have all outworked their way to the
[00:01:03] top. Subscribe to Rise and Grind in Apple Podcasts, Stitcher, or wherever you listen. Markets, speculation, and risk. This is the Chat with Traders podcast hosted by Aaron Fifield. Hey boys and girls, Aaron Fifield here. Welcome to Chat with Traders podcast. Before I introduce my guest, I have something cool to share which mostly applies to folks in Sydney because I'm
[00:01:36] planning a Chat with Traders drinks / get-together for Sunday, the 11th of February. At the time of recording this, I'm yet to lock down a location, but it will be somewhere around the city, the CBD area. So, if you don't have plans for Sunday, the 11th of February, it would be nice to see you there. It'll be a great opportunity to meet other traders, etc. To find out more and to RSVP, simply visit chatwithtraders.com
[00:02:07] / Sydney. Now, moving along, my guest who you're about to hear from is someone who I featured last year on episode 119. It's Alex, or who you may also know as @tagger trades on Twitter. That's t a g r trades. When Alex was on for the first time, back in April, he was beginning to make headway as a full-time day trader since abandoning a secure job a few years back. But since
[00:02:39] then, he's really stepped it up a notch. Alex finished 2017 with a compounded return of 1400% 1,400% with almost zero drawdown. Well, of course it was some drawdown, but it was very minimal. Which I mean, it sounds absurd saying it out loud because it is, but he really did it. Over the course of this episode, you're going to hear Alex and I reviewing his performance of 2017,
[00:03:11] what he did well, and the areas where he would like to further improve. Alex also talks about his strategy from scanning to entries to managing positions, plus psychology, self-discipline, and more. And at the risk of sounding cheesy, Alex is a good dude and I really think he's a great role model for upcoming traders, especially those who want to trade equities on a short time frame. Please enjoy and please share this episode on
[00:03:43] Twitter and Facebook so it reaches more ears. I'll be very grateful if you can do that. Here is my conversation with Alex. search your email address, but Anyway, nice to be chatting, dude. How are you? Yeah. Good. How are you? I'm all right. I'm doing well. I'm doing well. It's your weekend? Yeah, it is. Yeah, it's it's nice and early Saturday morning here. Well, good. Start off on the right foot. Yeah. Absolutely. How was your day? All right?
[00:04:15] It was all right. Yeah, I mean, nothing to write home about, but you know, can't can't complain ending the the week on a green note. Nice. Nice. You survived. That's the main thing, right? I I did. Exactly. So, um I know there's been a a few changes since we last spoke. I mean, you've got a a little girl now, another member of the family. How's How's she doing? Uh she's doing good, man. I'm I'm I'm pretty lucky. My my wife works from home, so she kind of gets to manage that whole aspect and and kind of leave me leave me to pure business.
[00:04:47] Uh but sleep deprivation is no joke. Definitely not as much sleep as I used to get, but other than that, I I really can't complain. Okay. How old is she now? She's almost 4 months. 4 months. Right. Okay. Okay. So, still still quite the uh still haven't gotten a full night's sleep in 4 months. Let's put it that way. So, that's been fun. It obviously hasn't affected your trading too much. No, I think it I think it might have right I mean, got me in the gear, too, knowing that I got somebody else to support now, so Exactly. Yeah. Yeah,
[00:05:19] more responsibilities, right? Word. Actually, that's funny. I remember I interviewed Aaron Brown uh like uh it's been a couple months ago. And he actually spoke about sleep sleep deprivation and said how it can actually have some positive effects. Really? Yeah. I'll I'll link you to it. If I don't if I don't get a good night's sleep, I'm pretty cranky, but I've definitely been going to sleep earlier to kind of make up for that, but He said it like activates a part of your
[00:05:51] brain that is often sort of um dormant. What's my secret weapon then, man? I'm I'm That's what it is. It almost like makes you more alert in some ways. I don't know. I'm probably getting this really wrong, but I'll link you to the episode. Might be interesting. I believe it. Um so, what does your wife do that she's working from home? Nothing, man. She's just a stay-at-home mom now. Oh, okay. Yeah, we're kind of doing the the single income thing. Giving that a shot, but I mean, child care in the first place is
[00:06:21] like I don't know. The translation of dollars is like 20 or 30 thousand dollars a year. So, for her to go get a job it basically just to be like paying child care anyway, so I know. That's so crazy, right? Like I've never really looked into it too much because I obviously haven't had to, but you know, the odd thing you hear here and there about how expensive child care is, it's like you're you're almost just going to work to pay for that, right? Yeah. Yeah, and then it's a pain in the ass, and then it's just hard to manage everything else, so it's she's just at
[00:06:51] home kind of kind of I guess I run the the actual financial side of the business and she runs I consider like the back office. She just gets everything done, so I don't have to be there. But so, it it works out for everyone. I I I like it that way. Right. I like the way you put that. That's funny. All right, man. Well, let's let's get into things. I mean, obviously the one of the first things I wanted to ask you about and I guess just speak to you about as well is um you know, what's been happening since we last spoke. So, we we first did
[00:07:23] uh the first podcast in April last year, 2017. Um and you've just been going from strength to strength ever since. I mean, it's been really cool to see. December last year, I believe, was your best month. It was. Yeah. And I actually saw you say somewhere that it December alone was better than the first 5 months combined of 2018 2017. So, let me just ask you, how come? What
[00:07:54] went so well for you in in December? So, basically the first 6 months of the year last year was me kind of grinding it out, building up the account, getting it to where I had enough cash in the account that I could really really put some some force behind my trades, and I kind of walked into the perfect storm towards the end of the year with a whole Bitcoin blockchain stuff exploding. I didn't actually trade the the the cryptos themselves, but all these companies were popping up saying that they were getting into mining or the
[00:08:26] blockchain or something like that, and they were exploding, and I was just well capitalized and well prepared and and had had I guess the training uh the mess-ups before, and I kind of came into it just just better. So, can you maybe share a few of the the plays which worked really well for you in December like that were related to this whole blockchain mania that was taking place? Yeah, so kind of like I I remember last time we talked, the beginning of the year was
[00:08:56] the shibber mania that was going on. Um and and they all kind of ran together. There's always about four or five stocks in each sector that that fuel off each other, and people think they're going to go from 100 $1 to $100, and there's just so much speculation, and I'd kind of call it like a risk-on atmosphere where people are just chasing and and going for everything and buying every dip. So, it creates a positive atmosphere for somebody who's long biased. And there was a few few companies
[00:09:27] that were pretty much just going up up up every day, and if and when they pulled back, they'd go. So, there was one in particular, the ticker is n a r a, and there's one d p w r i o t, and there's about four or five more. And and any day that they opened up weak, you could almost kind of track them all together and see when one's when one started getting bid up, the other two were were not far behind. So, it it really gave you the opportunity to to kind of be aggressive and and use use each other use them as almost like
[00:09:58] leading indicators or things like that. So, you could I would wake up one morning and three of them let's say all three of them were down, you know, a few percent, but one of them was down more. And the other two turned green, well, the one that I always always traded was the MARA and I was able to to get in there with confidence. And as the other ones went, I was able to kind of hold those positions longer than I was normally I normally consider myself kind of a cash flow kind of a scalper, but those allowed me to hold them longer because there was just so much mania
[00:10:28] going on. I mean, they were making 50 to 100% moves daily. Um and so, I was just able to get in and hold longer and put in more size and there was so much liquidity. Um you could sell a lot of shares. There's pretty much always somebody there to to to to sell to whatever you bought. Yeah, it was it was crazy. I just remember like obviously wasn't trading this sort of thing, but I just remember like coming into work in the morning and and seeing the headlines on Bloomberg about how this this company just added blockchain
[00:11:00] to the end of its name and now it's up like a 100% on the day or or whatever. I'm just like, "What's going on?" Oh, completely ridiculous. Like there'd be biotech stocks that were clearly had drugs in the pipeline. All of a sudden they'd put out some kind of some kind of PR saying, "Oh, and now we're in the blockchain." And it would just explode and it was the kind of thing that you were you were able to to risk a little more on that because there was so many other people that were just sitting you can just tell people have their fingers on their triggers waiting for the next next trade. So, it gave you a higher probability to
[00:11:32] to go for it. They didn't always work and a lot of times they didn't, but you know, just when your odds are there, you that's when you kind of put more risk on. Yeah, and I really like how you've described this because it's like you know, you've taken everything you've learned since you've come into trading and it's kind of built up. You've had that really sound knowledge base so that you've been well prepared for the next time that you know, a catalyst like this comes into play that you know, you can really hit it hard and make the most of it. Yeah, I've botched three or four of
[00:12:03] these exact same scenarios in different different sectors, different names, different everything, but the exact they all they all pretty much end up the same and they kind of work a little bit differently, but but very similar. And I'd botched enough to learn what not to do basically. So, I I can still definitely have a lot of improvement. There's no doubt. If I could get better at holding longer, holding overnight, things like that, but I baby steps. I'm getting there. Yeah, yeah. But I mean, how long have you been trading for now? Uh June will be 5 years. So, still still
[00:12:35] I would be probably considered a young gun out there. Yeah, for sure. For sure. Um but how long have you been trading for full-time now? It's That's that's how long it's been. Yeah, so I've I've been dabbling since Uh but by dabbling I mean putting on like three or four trades a year, just being interested in the markets for I don't know, 10 years. Um but nothing serious at all. Just had a had a healthy fascination, I guess. Yeah. And like you said, you've botched a fair few of these uh kind of themes that come into play in
[00:13:07] the past. What did you do differently this time around? I mean, obviously like we just discussed, you were a lot uh better prepared, but what are some of the mistakes you made in the past which you perhaps didn't make this time around? Preparation. So, knowing knowing the names um I wouldn't say inside out, but I try not to get fall in love with any single one of them, but knowing what's going to launch the next one, knowing which ones are the leaders and which ones are the laggards in the sector cuz what I used to always do is I would always just go for the laggards um in the sector and
[00:13:40] and try to play catch up. Um but a lot of times those are the biggest dogs and I I really focused this on this time on trying to find the best few and and and being the one of the ones that was the front runners on them. And so, trying to not not wait and and catch the last few percent. I was trying to get the majority of the percent on them. Um and then also knowing when when the party stops. That that was a big one that that hurt me in the past where I would I would do well let's say it was a 2-week period. I'd do really well for a week and a half or a week and then I would just hold on too long or buy too many dips or or give up too much of that
[00:14:13] phase. Well, this time I was I didn't catch the I guess the last couple days of craziness. I just kind of thought it's a little too crazy, a little too hot. Time to back off and just protect the profits now and go for much shorter uh shorter trades. So, if anything, I guess that was probably the biggest thing is knowing when to back off because you always hear it's easy to make money in the market, but it's really hard to keep it. So, so knowing when to take the foot off the pedal um and then when to apply it back because as soon as they run, they pull and they'll do a second run and just
[00:14:44] kind of getting the feel and the flow and and and riding the wave versus um I guess getting hit by the wave. So, I'm sure we'll get into this a lot more as as we get going, but you know, in in this particular instance, you know, the as the blockchain mania we're talking about, how did you gauge when to get out of these stocks? Like how did you know when the party was over? It kind of sounds funny and I've seen it other people talk about it, but whenever I guess whenever you get texts from your friends and family that want to get involved and they have never traded
[00:15:15] before, then you know, okay, the whole boat is loaded one side. Everyone wants to be long these names. And that's when it gets to dangerous because at some point the buyers are going to run out and the sellers are going to take over. And it's it's it's a healthy part of the market that obviously there's shorts that are on the other side. So, it's knowing when when there's when there's too too much optimism and it's you know, I guess it's a mixture of technical analysis by looking at charts and just saying this I mean, it can go further. There's no doubt it can go further and it can always go higher, but
[00:15:47] at some point the risk reward just isn't isn't there anymore. And when when you're looking for the next what's the next push going to be, it becomes less and less likely that it's going to continue. Um and and like I said, I I I did miss quite a bit of it. So, I didn't time it perfectly by any means, but there's a point when when you kind of have to stop it's not so risk on anymore. It's a little bit more defensive. Yeah, but I think that's that's a interesting point that you raised because you say you didn't capture the whole move, but you obviously captured a
[00:16:18] decent chunk of it and as a result you had, you know, the best month out of the whole trading year. Exactly. Yeah, and it it comes down to looking at the month even if you broke it down day by day. In any week period it was really like one day or or two even two days in the month that just just really pushed over the edge and the rest of it was just was just being there hitting base hits and and just and just taking what's there, but not going for too much. And I mean, I'm sure there are people out there that just slammed it and did way better than me. And maybe I'll be there in another 5 years, but
[00:16:48] where I was now was I was very comfortable with what I was what I was doing. Mhm. Well well played, man. Well played. Now, you've shared your uh your I guess you could call your equity curve. Uh I've seen you posting that on Twitter and it's just incredible to incredible to me how consistent you've been. Like it's such a smooth equity curve. How have you been able to achieve such great consistency? Um it looks really pretty really
[00:17:20] stretched out, but if you but if you look in there, there's there's still quite a few days where there's just not much I can get going. Um so, there's again, if you look at any any month, there's some days I don't even place any trades. But in the long when you look at the grand scheme of things, it it's the days that you know when not to go for it um that were my biggest mistakes in the past where um you know, let's say I just had a bunch of good days. I just kept pressing and pressing and pressing. Well, now I just kind of know that there's being okay with periods of not doing anything, um but still being there in case
[00:17:50] something comes up. I don't just have a couple good days and walk away. Um I'm still here, but but being okay with knowing that that I don't come looking for something to the market. And I think that was really really big for me last year. Um being okay with just kind of letting half a day go where there's no trades or a couple days and not forcing things and just really waiting for you know, and I know I talked about it in the last time we talked kind of the ABC setups. There's days that you can go for C's setups and and risk is on and when risk is not on,
[00:18:21] you really just got to be patient and go for the A's and maybe just take a couple couple bucks here and there, but when that compounds, that was the big thing that makes that chart look really awesome is compounding. That the size just gets a little bit bigger, so your small days just get a little bit bigger. And just protecting the downside and um risk management is is always my is my probably the thing that I guess is my Achilles heel from keeping me to get like the outrageous huge percent win days or dollar days, I guess. Um and just staying consistent, staying focused, and just trying to stay disciplined.
[00:18:51] How often would you say that there are days which you don't place any trades? Like are they pretty few and far between or maybe more often than most would think? I would say more often than most would think. This year I've um I've only had one day where I placed zero trades. Um but I've had a couple days where I've done one or two. Um and they've been not much and I've just had to be okay with it and just accepting it and just moving on and and not letting it fluster me or not thinking I have to come back the next day and go for more. Uh try to catch up, play catch up. I just I let
[00:19:22] the the longer term numbers speak. Um so, I would say any given month there's probably two or three days where I literally sit at the screen from open to close and don't click any any buttons at all. That's hard. Yeah, I think that that definitely is hard for a lot of people. That must be something which you know, you you've learned how to do. Like I I don't think that comes naturally, right? Oh, not at all. No, that and that was the thing. I mean, um just it's it's the one it's the day that I I wouldn't wait. The day that I put zero trades on is a day that would have
[00:19:53] been a a week killer or, you know, would have taken two weeks worth of worth of work away. Just taking the step back and it happened. And that's why I do it now cuz I I've done it. I've stepped on the landmines and now I just I just I'm just rather just wait it out um and be not aggressive and and I do let things pass and I There are things that I could hit on those days, but you just got to uh just got to be selective. Yeah, there's that sign. Um how does it go? It's like you're better to be out of a trade wishing you were in a trade than to be
[00:20:24] in a trade wishing you were out of a trade. 100% and there were times that that uh whenever I was posting my P&L every day and there'd be days and and that's kind of around our last conversation that I wouldn't have much. People say, "Well, how come you didn't hit this? How come you didn't hit that? Did you not see that?" And I was I I can't hit it all, man. You know, I'm I'm I'm here. I'm not perfect. I miss a lot, but uh it's it's just that selectivity, I guess, that that is my probably guess one of my edges. Yeah. Now, looking at your equity curve, very smooth, like I mentioned,
[00:20:56] you wouldn't be able to tell that you'd had any kind of significant slip-ups or anything like that, but has there been any slip-ups or uh substantial mistakes which you've made since we last spoke, you know, 8 months ago? Yeah, there seems to be the same thing that happens to me every so often. Luckily, it's been spreading out. It doesn't happen as often, but this year it's happened and I I have had one red day so far this year um and and it all stems from um when I kind of get in this flow
[00:21:27] trading state and I'm I'm just kind of working and I'm have maybe some trades on and I make an error. And and but the stocks that I trade, they're under $10, they're considerably low float. Um there's a there's liquidity issues involved sometimes. And and what happens is let's say I put in a wrong order. Um for example, I think I'm What happened this year was I was pretty full size into a trade. I got the breakout I was looking for. I thought I was scaling out of the trade, but was actually adding size into the trade. And by the time I realized it, the the trade
[00:21:59] was over, it'd broken down and I get in this almost a spider flight or fight reflex where I try to battle it or I try to wiggle my way out or I try to outsmart the market or something like that, but there's no one there to buy the shares that I accidentally bought. And and I take a a much bigger hit than if I were to just say, "Dude, you made the error. Put your market order and just sell out and take the take the loss." And I and I let it snowball. And that's happened probably about four or five times and that would be my my current fatal flaw that I'm I'm working
[00:22:30] on. Um it's easy. I have it written down. It says, "Alex, if you get into a trade you don't mean to, just market half out." But when you're in the heat of the moment, um sometimes your brain just kind of doesn't work. So, what are some of the traits which you can attribute to you making money as a trader? Like what are some of the things which you've actually tried to do really well? Like is there a short list of things which you've really tried to focus on over the past, you know, 8 months, 12 months,
[00:23:00] sort of thing? Um yeah, I would say and I have it I have a whiteboard in my office and I have something written down. The three The three things that I'm really really work working on to to get better um better preparation. Uh you hear it a lot. I mean, there's preparation in the market what before the market, during the market, after the market close. Just getting getting better at uh at something I I I do much better now than I have in the past, but having a a system in the morning that you follow every single day. Um sometimes when I have three or four
[00:23:31] really good days, I think I can cut a corner and I don't have to do something in the morning and then the market opens and I I miss out and it's it's a it's definitely something that I've improved on, but I'm still working on improving. And then having a clear criteria to hold longer. I'm I I'm in this I get in this such a short-term scalper cash flow mentality that I let a lot of really big trades go um and I have to watch them from the sidelines and I just that's just one of my one of my big flaws. Uh and then I'm also working on getting
[00:24:01] uh bigger size onto trades, but also when you do that you you have you can't just get bigger, you have to get better. Um you have to be able to read the order book, know kind of liquidity and and and all those kinds of things. Yeah, absolutely. Especially in the the stocks that you are playing, right? That's even more important. Yeah, totally. And and I remember somebody told me that last year as I saw my equity curve going up, they were saying, "You know, I I don't know if you know this, but you're going to get to some point where the game's going to completely change because you have to almost think one step ahead." And I was like, "Yeah,
[00:24:33] yeah, yeah, I get it. I get it." And then, you know, then you get there and you go, "Yeah, this is what he was talking about." That that you really have to be careful because, you know, you can't just cuz you have more money in your account doesn't mean that stocks care. That you can take all the the shares and if you don't have somebody there on the other side to to be there, then you can uh you can get in some serious trouble. Yeah. I know a lot of people are probably listening to this right now and they're saying that that's a good problem to have, though. Yes, I I you know, it it it's something that's going to have to continue to get harder and harder, but it's even harder when you're when you're starting and you
[00:25:03] have a small account. Um you're you are much more nimble, but there are times that you you think you can get aggressive or or not and you you don't even realize that there's that issue there that there's there's not always a bid behind you and you go, "Oh, how come I can't get out of the stock?" That's happened to me before. "How come I can't sell it?" Well, there's no one there to buy it from you. So, One of the things you mentioned just before was uh having like good preparation before, during, after the market. Um and you said, you know, when you have a few really good days, sometimes you feel as though you can cut
[00:25:33] corners a little bit and sometimes become a little bit complacent, but you know, you said it's important to follow uh some sort of routine. Would you mind sharing maybe your pre-market routine? I am the So So, for my time here, uh I'm central zone, the market opens at 8:30 in the morning. Some guys wake up really really early and they trade in the pre-market, um but see I don't at all. So, I I usually wake up and I'm start to kind of take a look at markets about an hour and a half before they open. First thing I
[00:26:03] do, I know most blogs and things like that say don't check your phone first thing you wake up in the morning, but that's the first thing I do. Check Twitter, check the news. Um I the night before I have a watch list ready of the stocks that I'm that I'm interested in. And I like to kind of keep updated on the news. So, if we're looking at, you know, the end of the the the good month last year in December, I had my my my names of stocks that I was watching that I was familiar with. Which which names are now saying they're involved in blockchain that have nothing to do with it. You you really want to know those things and you want to know them before
[00:26:34] the market opens and kind of want to be familiar. Um so, I have my watch list and I have on my screen about 12 charts that I'm watching and uh one of the things that I've really worked on is is kind of having an organization cuz that's a lot of data to watch. So, when I come to the market, I want to know where my charts are, which ones are that have to be watched right out of the open to get trades for, which ones need to set up a little bit longer and having a plan for each of those, but also being familiar with what their
[00:27:04] daily charts look like, where the closest support and resistance. That's a lot to take in um and that's something that I'm still getting better at, but it's it's coming, having a plan and then the same time being really flexible, knowing that as soon as the bell rings, your plan can get upside down. One PR comes out and it changes everything. If uh like I know they were saying one of the I think it was like South Korea was was going uh going to try to make trading cryptos harder and they just changed the entire game that day. So, no matter how much homework I
[00:27:34] did, no matter how how prepared I was, what I had written down on my notepad, it it it all it all doesn't matter at that point. You have to be flexible, but still be prepared. And I think if you're prepared, you can be flexible. That particular example, where are you getting most of your news? Like this um uh South Korea announcement about trying to make uh trading cryptos harder for uh people who live there. How did you receive that information? Like where do you get most of your information during the trading day? Twitter's a beautiful place. There's a
[00:28:05] lot of uh great information on there. You It's one of the nice things you can curate what you do and don't see cuz there's a lot of garbage, there's a lot of good stuff. So, um following the right people on Twitter. I also have uh two news feeds that I pay for. Um they have the actual news that scrolls and they also both have squawk boxes, which is really nice. So, they read out the news cuz a lot of times when there's a lot going on in the mornings, the there's all these trades happening and and you're and you're tracking a lot, it helps to have the news read out to you. So, if something you're trading all of a sudden they say, "Oh, they just filed for, you know,
[00:28:37] either something positive or negative, you can right then and there make a decision um versus missing something cuz you don't have eyeballs on it. Okay. So, what are those two services that you pay for? Uh one of them's called Trade Exchange and the one The other one's Benzinga Pro. Okay. So, Benzinga Pro is the squawk? Yes. And so is Trade Exchange. They both have squawk services and news services and they do cost money, but basically I I take a look at how much it costs and how much it helped typically makes me and those services typically make me a lot more money than they cost. Yeah.
[00:29:08] Yeah. Sometimes you've got to you've got to spend money to make money. Right. Okay. And those uh those are purely sort of equity based um services? Exactly. Yeah, so I'm I'm sure I know there's certain ones for, you know, for people that'll read more forex news and different kinds of services, but these ones are pretty much geared towards what I trade. Um they they also talk about stocks that I don't trade, Apple, Amazon, etc., but they also have breaking news on all our small cap stocks, which if you can hear it
[00:29:39] uh and and and hear it first, that's a huge edge in the market. This episode of Chat With Traders is proudly sponsored by Health IQ. Here's the thing about Health IQ. They want to encourage people to lead a health-conscious lifestyle. And as a life insurance agency, they figured the best way to do this is to offer fantastic rates to people who exercise frequently, live an active lifestyle, enjoy getting in the gym,
[00:30:12] maintain a healthy diet, etc. It's these things which Health IQ reward. To back this up with some statistics, 56% of Health IQ customers save between 4 to 33% on their life insurance. And these savings are exclusive to Health IQ. To see if you qualify, get your free quote today at healthiq.com/chat or mention the promo code chat when you
[00:30:45] talk to a Health IQ agent. That is healthiq.com/chat to get your free quote. Now, going to the other end of the day, after the market closes, I remember last time we spoke, we spent quite a bit of time actually talking about how you're journaling, how you're reviewing your performance each day, each week, etc. Um is that something you're still really big on or have you
[00:31:15] dialed it back a little bit? I'm still very pro journaling and tracking all of your trades, but I'm not currently tracking like I used to, to be honest. Um I think it's a great thing. For me, it was all about finding those prob- where where my high probability high probability trades were. Um where I was losing money, where I was making the most money. I took that data and essentially now I'm not journaling I I'm still journaling kind of notes on the trading day, but not tracking every single one of my trades because
[00:31:46] it became such a habit that it was almost like I could do it on my own. Um And I would still go back to it at some point. Let's say my strategy just completely stopped working, I couldn't make money, I couldn't figure anything out, I would dust that thing off in a heartbeat and get back to work. But um it really got me to where I was comfortable doing it on my own in my head. Mhm. Okay. Okay, that's interesting. And as you've grown your account over the past uh 8 months, 12 months, etc.
[00:32:16] Has that taken some psychological adjustment because I presume that your P&L swings during the day uh a lot bigger, you know, they might have been a few hundred dollars uh at the beginning of uh 2017. Nowadays they might be a few thousand dollars each way. Has that required some psychological adjustment to get used to that sort of thing because you know, it's not a small amount of money you're throwing around. Yes, it really has because I consider myself a somewhat simple person outside of the markets. Um I'm
[00:32:48] not a a big spender. Um So so having trades, you know, they're both positive trades are great, but it's those big losses that still hurt. I mean and and what used to be big back in 2017 is much bigger now number-wise, but it's around the same percent-wise. Um but it's still hard to swallow whenever you see, you know, you're down $2,000 or $3,000 on a trade. It's still still a tough pill to swallow knowing that what what could you do with that. Um and then on the same side on the flip side, sometimes and this is
[00:33:19] something that I have to work on is that when I have a couple really good trades and I put up a big a big P&L on the day, I have to remember that there's still only maybe one or two days in a month that really make your month good and I can't just get up and celebrate and call it a day or just get excited and start slipping up. Um Really have to to be to be careful on both sides. Um but as far as uh psych- psychologically, I'm I'm I know this was one of the questions that was asked on Twitter a lot, like how much of your account do you risk per trade and
[00:33:50] um just because my account's bigger, I still don't ever really go all in or or put my entire account in there. Um and but I have been working on slowly being more comfortable putting more size on. Um but it's I'm I'm a much more slow slowly raising that than just saying, "Okay, I'm going to double my size the next day." Okay, so if we were to look at it from like a percentage point of view, you're still risking roughly um about the same percentage of your
[00:34:21] account as you were when it was smaller. I am. And and one of the things that I I might do differently than most most traders and if maybe call it good or bad is I I I I truly don't say um I'm going to risk 2% on this trade or 3%. I typically have a setup that I'm looking for and I know I don't know if it's just become natural the size that I take. Um but but if a trade's not working, I'm not going to let it get to that that max, let's say 2 or 3% loss or whatnot. I I really just
[00:34:51] let the the trade work as it's supposed to. Um and I have gotten comfortable with it. So if I if I'm trying to trade a breakout, I don't set a wider stop than I need to. Sometimes my stops are really really tight and I don't really technically risk a lot other than the fact that there's liquidity issues and slippage and and and things can change, but um I I've my losses have my potential losses are larger, but on a percentage basis, they may even be getting tighter cuz cuz I'm actually improving my entries and my exits, if that makes sense. No, it does.
[00:35:22] It does. It makes a lot of sense. Now, you said a little bit earlier about how it hasn't really become an issue too much for you now, but it's something that you've been giving a little bit of consideration to is that you know, some of these more low float stocks, when you're trading larger size, you can uh have liquidity issues um and some significant slippage. Have you been thinking much about uh stepping over to more of the larger cap stocks?
[00:35:53] Is that something which interests you that you think you may um work your way up to at some point? It is. I I've kind of dipped my toe in a couple times trying to see if what how how I kind of read this market markets translates exactly over to the larger cap markets and it and it doesn't exactly cuz percent moves are kind of smaller, but the dollar numbers are much bigger and um it's similar, but you know, I keep telling myself that I'm going to have to make that jump at some point. There's going to be a certain period where I I just keep getting too
[00:36:25] much slippage or I or I can't I can't grow the way I want to grow. But I haven't gotten there yet and I try to kind of keep the eye my eye my eye on the prize right now or or on the ball, which is just the next day. Um and I actually, you know, uh had a conversation with one of the uh traders you had on here, Bryce Edwards. I I reached out to him because I I was kind of preparing myself for that issue, I guess, before it got there and I was looking at either starting to try position trading or swing trading or expanding my book. And he just hit me with some truth that
[00:36:56] was, you know, just keep getting bigger at what you do well and and just keep pressing and getting better and getting better at what you do. And and that it's it's I've done it so far and it's worked and I haven't had to change. Um and I I appreciate his comments. Um but I haven't I basically I know it's going to happen at some point, but I haven't gotten there yet. Yeah. I remember last time when we spoke, you said that you were interested in, you know, lots of other strategies as well uh as you develop as a trader. Like you were
[00:37:27] you were saying that, you know, it'd be good to eventually be able to trade like some trend following strategies and some more like longer term position trades and that sort of thing. Um that's not really something you've you've gotten into yet. I've tried. Um I've tried paper trading just the good old fashion way on a literal piece of paper writing, "Okay, here's where I would take a swing position. Let's hold it overnight and see what happens." And my accuracy is just it's not it's not very high there. It's not I'm not comfortable with it. I don't have confidence in it yet. Um
[00:37:58] uh maybe one day I will. Maybe one day I'll put my head down and really try to work on it and and and hammer that in because I do I do think that's probably the next step maybe. I can't I don't I don't know. I'm just speculating, but um that may be the direction I have to go at some point. Um but I'm I'm having a lot of fun where I am right now. Um I'm I'm pretty low stress. So honestly, I'm I'm almost thinking that at some point if I did have a liquidity issue, heck, I'm I'm doing pretty well for myself. So maybe I can just continue to
[00:38:29] I wouldn't say plateau, but just get a little bit better on what I do. No, I think I think that's really important and that's, you know, I I think because you a lot of the reason why you've done so well was because of that, because you've, you know, you found something which you're good at and you just focused on it, right? Uh you know, like striking while the iron's hot, as they say. Yeah, and and you know, and I get this question a lot from people. They say, "Oh, you know, you're you're you're just you're you're a long bias trader in a really big bull market. Well, how do you know, you know, how do you know you're still going to be successful in a
[00:38:59] year or two or three?" And and the answer is I don't. Um things completely change upside down in in in a flash and all I know is is kind of what got me here uh and going back to like the the journaling and and tracking trades and I have to only assume that if everything that I know just stopped working, but the market still traded, that I could readjust and I could find something that worked and I'd have to start backwards and I'd have to set smaller goals and I'd have to work my way back up and be patient and be ready to fall and and stumble, but um as of right now, I'm just trying to
[00:39:31] to get better at at the few things that I'm good at. Yeah, I mean I I have complete confidence that you would be following. I mean, you've got to trade the market that we're in. You know, last time we spoke, you were that was one of the interesting things which we spoke about, actually, is about how you do play the long side. You know, you're trading these uh these low float stocks, and most of the guests who I've had on in the past who trade uh this market are very short biased. Where you predominantly trade the long side. Um is
[00:40:02] that still the case, or have you started to take more short trades, or is it something which is still not really of interest to you? I'm slowly creeping over to the dark side. Um I would say last time we talked, uh I was about a 98% of the time long trader with just every once in a while I would short. Now I'm still still I would say 85% long side, and I'm dipping my toe trying to I'm I would say a 20th of the size I trade
[00:40:33] on the long side, trying to get comfortable. And what I was doing before was I was trying to short things that I wasn't really familiar with. I don't I don't really know why, but if I just like I'm kind of focusing on and on the the Bitcoin sector at the end of last year on the long side, I was also aware of how they moved up and down, so I was trying to kind of flip flip the script a little bit and work a little bit on the short side, but it wasn't a huge profit bucket for me. I wasn't making a ton on it, but um
[00:41:04] I'm I'm hopefully going to be increasing it a little bit. Okay. So, you'd you'd say that still about 98% of your trades are long? Uh about 85%. I'm getting a little bit a little bit more about 15% on the short side now, I would say. Okay. And as you've been you're kind of less experienced playing the short side, um how have you been treating that? Like, have you been taking much smaller size on those trades? Yes, much smaller size. My emotions um I don't really have
[00:41:34] them in check because I just have this I don't know know if you want to say natural ten uh fear, I guess, of just getting caught in something outrageous, which happens every once in a while. Um so, I take much smaller size. I give myself right now I give myself one bullet in the chamber, so I'm not going to add add add and and get myself into something bad. I basically say I've got one shot to pick a good spot, and you got to stick with it. Um set your stop, and it's it's a work in progress, to say the least. Um it's profitable overall for
[00:42:05] me, but it's um it's nothing big, and the thing I also don't want it to be is a a distraction on my long side. So, I kind of um it's I only kind of shift towards that when I really feel there's just not much on the long side. Mm. Okay. Now, Alex, when you posted on Twitter um yesterday, I think it was, um that you were going to be coming on and did anyone have any questions, one of the questions which kept popping up over and over again was how were you scanning and identifying these stocks which may offer
[00:42:37] trading opportunities? So, obviously, you know, when you hear about these blockchain catalysts which are coming into play it's kind of hard to miss that sort of thing, or to to not know about it, right? But when there's not a catalyst in play or a catalyst which to the same magnitude how are you finding stocks to trade on just a regular sort of day? Yeah, so it's good you differentiated that because scanning when there is a
[00:43:09] catalyst is almost just being at the market, um seeing what's moving, uh being familiar and having that list of the top 10 names that have the most volume. But, you know, when the market does slow down, and it will slow down, and it goes in phases, and um let's say like August of last year, I remember everybody was just "Oh my gosh, there's nothing to do. Is the market done?" And just, you know, it slows down. So, at that point you you do have to do some scanning. Um and so, what I do, and I don't know how the different sites work for
[00:43:40] different countries and different exchanges, but we have a site Finviz, find viz, um I don't know how you pronounce it, but it's a free site. And it allows you to uh search every single stock, um and you can kind of break it down into really complex search terms for people who like fundamental analysis, um you know, how much do they earn, what's their debt ratios, etc., etc. But then it also has technical side. And so, I keep my scanning pretty simple. I like to look for stocks under $10 because that's where I at the time and I
[00:44:10] still do now have my my expertise, I guess you'd say. Um And then I the one thing that I know people talk about over and over again is it how vol how how important volume is to trading, uh and it took me a a long time to realize why, but I scan for stocks under $10 and stocks that are trading at at least two and a half times their daily average. And And the reason is is you can scan for amazing charts all day long. And you can find a great chart, and this is what I did a lot when I started was I find a great chart, 10 great charts, and
[00:44:42] I'd trade the wrong three ones, I guess you could say. Nobody No nothing It didn't go anywhere, but it was a great chart. But that doesn't matter because other people weren't watching it. There wasn't other people that wanted to get involved. There wasn't other people sitting with their fingers on the trigger waiting for that entry that that that whatever they're looking for. So, when you scan for for charts, it's really important to to look for volume and look for above average volume because that means people are getting interested, or or it's people are already interested. And that's something you want to watch. Um
[00:45:12] and it's and it's free, and so it usually brings up a list of, let's say, I don't know, 20 or 30 stocks that are trading above average volume that are under 10. Then you can start breaking down how their charts look, uh what are their catalysts, what sectors are they in. And then let's say there's 10 in that you find that have good chart setups. I would move those over to my watch list, and I would arrange them based on, you know, the ABC setups where, you know, the A would be, you know, it's a great chart, it's in a great sector, it's got a low float, it's got a high short
[00:45:43] percentage, it's got, you know, all these little things that you want to look at, whatever whatever you care about. Um and and you kind of arrange those, and that's where you That's how I set my priority. Uh so, when the day starts, I know that the top five, and I know the bottom five, and those bottom five sometimes are the biggest winners. You got to keep your eye on them. Um but but that's how That's how I do my scanning, and it it's really nothing nothing crazy. So, once you filter it down, you end up with about 10 names to watch that day?
[00:46:13] Well, I guess if it's if it's a slow period, sometimes there's only three, four, or five, and that's sometimes a good thing because that means there's a higher percent chance that everyone's going to get fixated on one or two of the names that you're watching. So, I would say I'd say usually you can find, even in really crappy markets, you can find three names that are trading above average volume for some reason. I think it's really cool that you still use Finviz even at this point, you use it like a free tool. That's really cool. Yeah, I mean, I'm sure you could probably pay for something a little bit
[00:46:44] better, but I mean, that that I have All you have to do is like watch a commercial every once in a while, and then you can just X out, and so. No, it's it's a very comprehensive scanner. I mean, I occasionally get emails people asking, and that's usually the one I suggest. Yeah, and you can set it up really detailed, and I have some detailed scans, and I found that simple simple works. Yeah. And you said daily average volume um uh you you like to see stocks which are two and a half times the daily average volume. Uh that's the average over what
[00:47:16] period? Like, the last 10 days, or You know, that's a good question. I want to say it's 20, but um I'd be I'd be lying. Um I think it's just whatever standard in there, to be honest. I haven't really messed with that. Um but then sometimes that's if that scan doesn't show anything, if the market's like really dead, sometimes you kind of have to take it down a notch, but when when everything's going some and your list is too long, you just kind of increase that. That's just showing you where are the eyeballs, basically. Where is everyone else looking? And to what
[00:47:46] extent do you care about the the broader higher time frame trend, or are you only focused on intraday price action? I always start with a daily chart. So, um when I'm scanning, that's that's where I look. Um I probably could zoom zoom in more like on a on a 1-hour because I am such a short time frame. I'm basically trading uh intraday breakouts, and I don't look back, let's say, a year and really care about like what the high levels of resistance and support is. I'll look back maybe 20 days and see what the
[00:48:17] support and resistance there is cuz that's where the people that I'm typically doing business with and transacting, that's where everyone's focused on. So, I I typically start with the the the 1-day chart, and then now I've been really really focusing a lot more on the 1-hour chart, uh because it's even more zoned in to to where I'm con where I'm concerned with support and resistance is. Uh and then I focus intraday on the 3-minute chart. Okay. So, you're not trading off a 1-hour chart, are you? Right. No, so that's kind of where when I talk about
[00:48:49] I'm trying to get better at having criteria for longer term trades, I like to know that the daily chart and the 1-hour chart is lined up in some sort of way, uh and and that would allow me to hold longer, but I'm not trading off of those charts. I'm my I guess you'd call it {quote} {unquote} my my entry signals are on the 3-minute chart. Okay. Got it. Yeah, cool. Alex, would you mind talking about one of the setups which has been working best for you as of late? Maybe one of these intraday breakout trades? Yeah, so
[00:49:19] again, even going back to the scan being simple, um I really kind of learned that simplicity in in what you're looking for intraday, um I used to be really rigid looking for uh drawing trend lines and being really rigid of like it's got to touch here it's got to touch the numbers got to exactly touch that line if I'm going to buy either a dip or a breakout. Um but what I've kind of learned is is is watching intraday is uh flag patterns or pennant patterns, which are just simple like a like a breakout
[00:49:49] and then a consolidation. And then that's kind of where I zone in. After something breaks out, I'm never the first one in into a breakout. I I don't think that probably happens like once or twice a year and it's completely lucky. Um I typically wait for a a chart to breakout. Let's say let's say let's just keep referring to Bitcoin because it's fresh in everybody's minds right now. A chart makes a big move and it kind of hits a hits a high point and pulls back. And that's where I get interested cuz that kind of gives me an area where I can where I can watch and
[00:50:20] say that's where people are either considering it to be the high of the day at that point and there maybe shorts that are using that as a kind of a buffer and then looking for certain patterns in the in the in in the order book. You know, does a big bidder step in? You can you can over complicate it definitely, but essentially looking for a breakout, consolidation pattern, and then that next push. Um But there but it can get very detailed in in in the in the fine details that you're looking for within those patterns.
[00:50:52] Yeah, how about indicators? Are you using any indicators? I think VWAP might be one that you use. Yes, that's the only one that I use on every single chart. Every single I guess on the daily it doesn't really look that good, but every single intraday chart I have the VWAP on. It's a simple guide that I use. I don't over analyze it. I know there's there's a lot to it technically and a lot of people have written code for it, but I just kind of use it as a really quick gauge. If I'm going to pull up a chart that I'm not familiar with that I'm not watching, where is it in relation to its
[00:51:22] VWAP? If it's over, theoretically it means that that bulls are in control. And if it's under it means that bears are in control, but it's not always the case, but it it just it gives you a quick idea to say, "Okay, the average person's holding this in their green or they're you know, it gives you a quick basis." And then I also use on my daily charts and hourly charts the five the 50 and 200-day moving average. Not anything for any crazy reason other than a lot I know a lot of people have
[00:51:52] it on their charts. And that's kind of really what tools are, right? I mean, they're they're just the fact that a lot of people are watching them so they act around those tools for specific reasons. So, I a lot of times use them as targets. So, if I'm underneath on the daily chart of 200-day moving average, but it's pretty close and we're getting to a close to a breakout underneath that, then that's going to kind of be a target that I'm going to be shooting for to try to start taking some some shares off or looking for a breakout through that. And the same time on a daily chart if it's pulling back, I'm not a big dip buyer anymore. I've learned my lesson. I'm not
[00:52:23] really good at that. But if it starts pulling back into let's say the 200 or 50 moving average on a daily chart, then I start looking for intraday break off breakouts off of those levels. So, that's all I use. Yeah, and I'll just point out that I think you wrote an article about or you you posted something on your blog about how you actually use VWAP. So, if anyone's interested in a a slightly more detailed explanation, uh maybe check that out. I'll put a link to it in the show notes. Now, one of the things which I think
[00:52:54] you're really good at is actually trade management. So, once you get set in a trade, can you talk to us about some of the things which go through your mind as in like how do you manage this position from that point? Again, it goes back to what you can what could some might consider a strength, others might consider a weakness. So, for me I'm really consistent. Um I don't take a lot of big losses. Um So, when I enter a position, because the primarily what I trade is breakout
[00:53:25] trades, but it doesn't always mean that I'm trying to like a 52-week high or something like that. It's patterns within a day. Um If I'm looking for a breakout and I I've learned last time we spoke I was really big into scaling into a trades um and scaling out of trades. What I've learned over this last 6 months is that I'm much better just going full size, one bullet into my trades. Um so, when that happens, as soon as I enter a position, I know exactly where I want the breakout to
[00:53:56] happen. If it doesn't work, I know exactly where hopefully somebody in the order books out there that I can that I can get rid of my shares to. Um so, as soon as I put on a trade and I get a breakout, I'm instantly selling some shares. And that may hurt me at sometimes because this it could go up another 50% and I sold it for two or three percent or partial and then I'm scaling on the way up. Um but but that's a big part of my trade management is is taking some risk off right away. Um
[00:54:27] reducing those emotions, letting me have a clear head. Um once I'm in that trade, if I get the breakout, I'm very aware there's false breakouts. And as soon as you get that, everyone's loaded on one side and they they break down. So, literally as soon as I put on a trade, I have my first order ready to to execute on a sell. Um and most of the time luckily I can I can get the first scale out as a profit. And then I am prepared right then and there to completely sell my position um even at a tiny loss or at a slight profit
[00:54:59] because I know uh breakouts fail. Um and I'm I'm just really trying to to capture something on every trade. Um and then once that position goes, the thing I've been really working on on on managing trades is getting a bigger position size and trying to hold a little piece a little bit longer. So, if my target, you know, going back to what we said before is the 200-day moving average, but I'm a substantial amount away, I'll take some just right off the bat off that breakout and then I'll slowly scale out
[00:55:30] of my position to where typically I'm at like a fifth of my size when I hit my final target. Um I wish I could just man up and and and go for more and go for full bigger position towards the targets, but that's that's kind of how I manage trades is I basically put on my max risk right away and I start taking that risk off as soon as I can. So, let's say if you are sort of trading towards a point we think is a good point to get out like have your entire trade off the
[00:56:02] book. How willing are you to change your mind as things play out? Like as are you kind of reading price action as the trade is in motion and you know, if it looks like it might be turning around a little bit, like how willing are you to kind of give it room to breathe and move around or are you just cutting the trade? Most of the time I'm cutting the trade. Um I just and that's my risk aversion right there and that's something that I
[00:56:32] continue to work on is knowing when I should let it wiggle more and when I should give it a longer time to run for a target, but typically, let's say a lot of it has to do with reading the chart and the order book and flow and let's say it's just there's so much buying going on at a certain level, but the price isn't moving. It's just a sign for me to say, "Look, it they may bust through this wall. They may keep pushing it and it could go higher, but I've just got to protect myself. I've always got to look out for protecting myself." And I usually just start scaling out and I
[00:57:03] don't I don't typically if it doesn't go right where I want to go right away, I don't just typically slam out of my whole position, but I start lowering risk. And when I don't do that and I try to go for more and it pulls back, I just I just get that kind of ticked off feeling cuz I get I know like you said earlier, I'd rather be out of a I'd rather wish I was being in a trade than wish I wasn't in a trade. So, I just start scaling out and doesn't always work in my benefit, but it's kind of keeps me consistent. Cool, man. Well, let me ask you, what's on the
[00:57:33] cards for the next 12 months? Like what are your big kind of goals for 2018? Where do you want to take this? Continue to scale. Um and and and perfect little things here and there. So, I've noticed that the biggest changes are are are really just making a few small changes have a huge impact on the P&L the grand scheme of things. Trying to continue to get into larger positions. And I would love to find different areas to trade different I
[00:58:05] guess larger markets or more liquid markets. Um but I'm I'm still keeping my eye on the prize, coming up, waking up every day and looking at just what I did the day before, doing it all over again just a little bit better. Um trying to get more comfortable with bigger swings in those profit and losses and and and being not getting over excited or any on any you know, either direction. Yeah, I mean, I guess just trying to get a little bit better. Nice, man. All on the prize. I like that. That's very good.
[00:58:37] Do you have one tidbit, one piece of wisdom, just a lesson you'd like to pass on or share to younger traders coming up? Well, I did have one of the questions that I that I really like um I guess I kind of addressed both of them, but I'll but I'll but I'll readdress them cuz I got a question like what are some of the habits of a really profitable trader or consistently profitable trader. Um And and I just really did want to harp on the self-discipline and the flexibility part because I know that was that was a huge turning point for me is
[00:59:08] whenever I you're going to slip up. You're going to make really bad trades. Um but the self-discipline is so important to to to keep yourself on the right track. Um to to know at least if you're doing something wrong, at least know that you're doing it wrong and and and and make try to make the right adjustments and being flexible. Um I think a lot of people get into to to trading and they they want something. They either want to make really big gains or they want to be a hot shot um what what
[00:59:38] options trader whatever. But but if but if you realize pretty quickly that it just doesn't fit you. You got you got to be flexible. I think that's what a problem a lot of new traders have is is they they kind of see one mold it doesn't work and either they give up or they lose a lot. Um so I wish I wish people would really really hammer down on that self-discipline because I get a lot of some questions all the time with people messing up over and over and over and over and over again about the same things. But at some point you got to you got to make you got to make some big big changes there. Yeah. Now I appreciate you sharing that
[01:00:10] man. Um I'm glad you addressed that. So yeah, let's let's wrap things up there. I do want to say it's been really good catching up again. It's been really cool to see your progress. I'm really proud of you man and I wish you all the best moving forward. Stay awesome. Um where can listeners go to find out more about you? I know you've got a blog that you've you've put together and you've also you're also on Twitter. Do you want to share those couple things? Yeah, so
[01:00:40] my Twitter is tagertrades t a g r trades. Don't keep up with it as much as I used to. Maybe I'll come to get back into it but recently had a about to have a almost a four-month-old daughter now so my life has been strictly trading and then and then that. But then I also have the the blog. Geez, I haven't even gone there in a long time. What is it? It's tagertrades.com. There's some interesting stuff in the past but I'll try to keep a little bit more updated for everyone in 2018. Yeah. Oh, you're a
[01:01:11] busy man. You've got to you've got to focus on what's most important so yeah, keep doing you man. Thanks as always Aaron. Yeah, thank you very much for sharing. We'll talk again soon I'm sure. See you man. You've reached the end of this episode of Chat with Traders but rest assured there are more episodes loaded with real market insight and zero hype on the way soon. So to stay updated with each great new release, subscribe to the podcast in iTunes and we'd love it if you'd leave a
[01:01:41] rating and review. We'll catch you next time on Chat with Traders.
