# 039: Tom Dante – Speaks to the Competitiveness of Trading and Essential Skill Sets for Profitability
# source: YouTube auto-captions (en-orig) https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=DpUAgOr0QTU

[00:00:00] Chat with Traders, episode 39. The biggest secret of the best traders in the world is that they're just like everyone else. However, they've worked hard to learn the markets and discover what works and what doesn't. But how can you hear about these journeys and get in on the strategies and tactics they use? You can do it by listening to Chat with Traders. Here's your host, Aaron Field. [Music] Hey there. What's going on, guys? Welcome back to another episode of the
[00:00:31] Chat with Traders podcast. Thank you very much for tuning in. And this week we're up to episode number 39. Now, I had the great pleasure of speaking with Tom Danty, whom many of you may already know from Twitter as Trader Dante. Uh but if you don't, that's cool. I'll give you a real quick snapshot now. So Tom's a day trader from London who pretty much tells things exactly as they are. I mean, he makes no attempt to soften the blow from the harsh realities of trading. So, I mean, that's something we really value already. And he's got a
[00:01:03] really interesting and unique story about how he got started trading, which was around 1999. Uh, and from that point on, there was a period of about 7 years where Tom really struggled to gain consistency with his trading results. So, that's something we dig into and speak at lengths about during the first part of this interview. Now after developing a track record of profitability, Tom joined a prop trading firm where he learned many of the solid trading principles that have shaped him into the trader he is today and again
[00:01:35] many of which are discussed during this episode. Nowadays, Tom is an independent trader who focuses mostly on the bond market intraday as well as other futures. And besides the few points I've mentioned already, we've of course discussed much more uh including the competitiveness of professional trading, the importance of learning from your mistakes quickly, and the real cost of becoming a great trader. Now, let's dig into this week's interview. I'm your host, Aaron Firefield. This is the Chat with Traders podcast, and here is this week's guest
[00:02:06] from London, UK, Tom Danty. Tom, what's up, man? Welcome to the podcast. How's it going? Okay, Aaron, thanks for having me. I'm really really appreciate being here. Um, I've seen your I've seen the website. I've seen, you know, a few of your or listened to a few of the interviews and they're they're really fantastic. So, I'm really happy to be here. Awesome. I really appreciate it. And I mean, thank you very much for making the time to speak with me today or this evening for you. I mean, we've been trying to set this up for quite some
[00:02:37] time now. So, we've got a lot to discuss, but um yeah, so I mean, we're going to talk about your path to profitability in a fair bit of depth because I think this will really resonate with with quite a few listeners. Um we're also going to discuss your style of trading um and just cover plenty of tips and pointers for um other traders. So, I think there's going to be a lot of value in this, but let's let's get this underway, okay? and start with um when did you first discover the
[00:03:08] markets? Like what was it that appealed to you? How did you come across them? And even take it back a step further to to let us know what you were doing before this time. Okay, so it's 1999, right? And the market is on fire. But I don't know this. I mean, [ __ ] I barely even know what the market is because I was 20 years old and to be honest with you, I was more interested in girls. Um, now my sister came home one day and I heard her telling my mother how she'd
[00:03:40] saved a little money from her job and invested some money in the stock market and how she was just making incredible returns. And I think many people kind of get started in the same way. um they hear about the market from friends or family, but I was particularly keen because my sister is a very influential figure in my life. Um and just to give you a little bit of a backstory there, um when I was just 3 years old, my father passed away from a sudden heart attack, leaving my mom, a weirdo in her 30s with three children,
[00:04:12] my two sisters and I. Um, and I was particularly close with one of my sisters because she took a very kind of maternal role, really looked out for me when I was growing up. And she kind of became a second mother to me. Um, and so the reason I'm telling you this little backstory is because it will really explain why I managed to, you know, to become so enamored by the idea of trading stocks. Cuz I'd be listening to her and I'd be hanging on her every word. And, you know, she'd be telling my mother how she was buying these stocks and boy were these stocks paying out.
[00:04:43] And it was a period um as we know now uh you know around the 1999 um which we're probably never going to see again where almost on a daily basis stocks were just having these parabolic moves and she would be literally doubling tripling her money in unbelievably short spaces of time. Now of course I didn't jump right in because I was just 20 years old. I was still studying at the time. I had literally no money to my name. but her returns kept increasing. So eventually I kind of
[00:05:14] decided I better do something about this. I better get involved and I scraped some money together and limped into the market. Um I say limped in because that is literally how I approached the market. I opened my account, my first account with just $500. Uh which is a very small amount of money. And right off the bat I just proceeded to voraciously buy stocks. Um there was no rhyme or reason in it. I would literally look down the paper, if a company name appealed to me or there was a headline story on a company and it was positive, that was it. That was it.
[00:05:45] I was buying. Um, and when I look back on it now, it was just a complete recipe for disaster. And I'll tell you why. Basically, the broker that I set up an account with, um, we had to pay £15, um, both to get in the trade and to get out of it. So that was £30 commissions for a round trip. Now on a £500 account, that basically means the the commissions account for 6%. So basically, to cut a long story short, um the stock had to go
[00:06:19] up 6% for me to break even. And bear in mind that I could only go long the market. I couldn't go short at the time um because the broker wouldn't allow it. So, I had to be long only in one of history's major bare markets with the stock needing to go up 6% for me to even make my money back. Um, now I know the game is hard when you start out, but that's beyond hard and verging on the impossible. But I kept that up for several years. And a lot of the time when I tell people how long it took me
[00:06:49] to get profitable, people ask me, well, you know, why did it take so long? And the reason it took so long is because I was just the idiot that does the same thing every single day hoping for a different result. I mean, it's under those conditions, it would be incredibly hard for anyone to make any money, let alone a complete beginner. But there I was just buying these stocks every day and losing money and eventually the account would get blown. I'd refund it and start again and the same thing would be happening. Um, and you know, obviously from time to time I did have,
[00:07:20] you know, a few stellar stock pits, stock picks by pure chance. Um, I'd happen to stumble onto the right stock at the right time and it would shoot up and I'd actually make some money. But that kept me playing the game and that's what keeps everyone playing the game because you don't lose, you know, every single trade that you make. Even the worst trader in the world is going to win from time to time. And as soon as you get that win, it fires you up and it reignites the whole dream. So it just keeps you going. And I remember uh and
[00:07:51] I'm probably kind of paraphrasing now, but I remember a a quote from Reminiscence for Stock Operator where um it basically explains how if you lost every single trade that you took, you would probably learn a lot quicker than what happens in actual fact is is that you do have these wins. Sometimes you do in fact have win streaks as well. and and you know, you might not be profitable, but you put together a week, a fortnite, sometimes even a month or
[00:08:22] two of winning and you think you've cracked it and you haven't, but it just it it all takes so much time um to find out when whether you've made it and what's going, you know, what's going on. Um at any rate, I kept up this, you know, this losing process of buying these stocks and not making any money for 4 years, if you can believe that. um before I really realized that essentially what I was doing is completely gambling and I couldn't beat the market without
[00:08:53] a being able to short, you know, because that was going to be, you know, something that would massively help me if I could actually short rather than having to be long. So, I was constantly against the trend. um B either having more money or getting lower commissions and C um having a strategy that was a lot more robust than simply randomly betting on companies that I liked, you know, the sound of. And then in 2004, I came across spread betting and that is simply a derivative um where we can bet
[00:09:24] on price fluctuations. It has major advantages for UK citizens because we don't pay tax on winnings. And that really changed everything for me because it opened up a lot of doors. It it opened up doors in terms of new markets that I could trade like now I could trade forex, commodities, bonds, um stock indexes as opposed to just stocks. And I didn't have such extortionate commissions. And what's more, I could go both long and short. And at this point,
[00:09:54] I thought, I've hit the big time, you know, now I I I've got what I wanted and now I can settle down and start making money. And I nearly did, but not because I'd worked out a way to beat the market, but instead I actually worked out a way to beat the broker. And I hit on something that made me a huge amount of money really quickly. Um, and I'll tell you I'll tell you what happened. I often explain this in webinars and people find this really fascinating. It doesn't
[00:10:25] happen so much these days, but I'm sure there are still opportunities if you look hard enough, but I used to open as many accounts as I could because they would give you bonuses to entice you in. So, for example, they might say, "Fund an account with £50 and we'll give you £150 to kick you off, start you off." Um, so I'd open a lot of these accounts to get these bonuses. And one day I had two accounts open and I was watching the Dow and it was a minute or two before 1:30. We had some tier one data uh to be
[00:10:57] released and the news came out and I noticed that the price moved with one broker and not with the other and then it moved with the other about 6 to 8 seconds later. And I thought that's odd. That's odd. There's a lag there. Now the next day I watched exactly the same thing happen. Well, by day three, you know, you better believe I was ready to capitalize on it. I would literally hit the market with the lagging broker, taking the directional queue from the faster one. So, I'd see it go and then I would know which way to basically trade and just
[00:11:29] hit the market. Um, it was like seeing the future. It was absolutely incredible. And I made a lot of money doing that, basically. Um, capitalizing on the broker lag. And the best thing was that the broker just let me keep that money. Um, eventually they did shut down that loophole. So, their prices came in line, but which was disappointing, but at least I got to keep the money. But that kind of spurred me on to search for more brokers that might be making these errors. And I came across several more where I could actually take advantage of mispricings. Um, I remember one now, and I'm not
[00:12:02] going to I'm not going to give the name, but they would be erratically spiking prices every few minutes. Like you see for example crude oil would be say let's say 50 bid uh 505 offered and it would just be you know quietly trading and then suddenly it would have a dollar spike up and a dollar spike down in literally two to three seconds and it wasn't the result of news. It was just literally the result of a of a pricing error with their you know with their algorithm that was pricing the market.
[00:12:32] And I would just you know I'd see that and I would hit it. So I'd see it spike up a dollar. I'd know I could sell and I'd also obviously have other brokers and I knew that the price of oil had not spiked up a dollar. So I'd hit it. It would come straight back in line and I'd make like a you know 100 ticks sometimes more in seconds and these were literally some of the best days of my life. Like I was on top of the world uh because it was free money and I was making huge amounts. And it was that point right there where I knew that I was going to
[00:13:02] be trading for the rest of my life because although betting on broker errors is not a legitimate strategy, you know, by God, there are very little feelings like the ability to make hundreds sometimes thousands of pounds in seconds and you know that trading is a result of that. So I knew it had me hooked from that point. Then um all of these brokers incidentally with the exception of just one let me keep the money. one just took it out of my account and wouldn't let me have my winnings, but all the others let me keep them. Um, and eventually those loopholes
[00:13:33] all got closed down. And that is when around about 2006, 6 years after placing my first ever trade, I had a fairly big pot of money. But now I had no means to make more because they shut these loopholes down. And suddenly I had to learn how to trade properly. And that really is when you know the proper journey started because now I had to look at the market and think well hang on a minute I haven't got a guaranteed edge here you know so so how am I going to find an edge um and as I say that's when the journey started
[00:14:03] yeah I mean that's that's quite a story that's a it's really interesting one so I mean what was your next step from there like as you said you've got a you've got a big sum of money there but you don't know how to turn that into more money so what was your next step moving forward right so at that point. What I started to do is I started to frequent forums and I started to look around and I started to try and learn um how to trade. And of course, you know, I I mean, at this point in time, I had had
[00:14:34] very little um understanding of technical analysis or fundamental analysis because I'd literally been just looking at the ticker and taking advantage of, you know, of pricing errors. So I wasn't looking at things like head and shoulders, trend line, support, resistance, any of that. So I took to these forums and I started reading, you know, various different strategies and I just started trading. Um, and I started losing, you know, straight away. I started losing that large sum of money that I had made and I started losing it
[00:15:04] because, um, I was just, you know, again, just trying things out but with no real rhyme or reason. Um and then in 2006 I happened to come across the what is called the James 16 group on Forex Factory and I think it's one of the largest threads on that website and I started to read uh the thread read up on price action begin to understand the dynamics of support resistance and market structure and it really made
[00:15:35] sense to me and I applied myself to it wholeheartedly really studied it watched the market with these frames of reference in mind and I started to be able to anticipate when the market was going to react to levels and how far it was likely to react. So my ability to anticipate the market movements started to really improve after spending time studying price action uh from learning it from
[00:16:06] that thread. But despite the fact that I was able to now read the market and in many cases call the market effectively, I still was not making any money at all. In fact, I was losing a lot. And the reason that I was losing a lot is because I was just basically trading way too large. And the reason I was trading too large now comes kind of right the way back to the broker errors because I had made so much money so quickly.
[00:16:38] Um, I thought that was, you know, that was standard. That was part of the course. So, suddenly it doesn't seem exciting anymore to bet small when you've when you've been used to making hundreds, sometimes thousands of pounds in seconds. You want to get that thrill again. You want to bet large. So, essentially what I was doing is just betting way too big and having these big losses. Um, and of course that's why I wasn't, you know, I wasn't really getting anywhere because I would just, you know, undo winners, um, very, very
[00:17:10] quickly by just consistently betting way over the top of what I should been. Okay. So during that time uh during that time was there a point when you thought okay maybe they're like I don't know the good days have been and that they've now gone. Is this still appealing? Was there still opportunity? Um like what motivated you to keep going from there even though you'd been consistently winning and now you were consistently losing? Like why
[00:17:40] did you keep pushing forward? Well, what spurred me on was the fact that I could see that I could call the market correctly. So, when you can anticipate um market movements, you have a lot of confidence. And when you then fail to capitalize on them by really what can only be deemed as idiotic errors, you you know, you kind of berate yourself and you think, "Oh, you know, that was that was so dumb of me." But you keep going because you you you know that you can call the market,
[00:18:12] right? If you looked at the market and you just had no idea where it was going and every time you came up with an idea, it was completely wrong. I'm sure after a while you just think, you know what, this is ridiculous. I can't do this anymore. But it was it's it's very strange and I think a lot of traders go through this cuz I see it, you know, as a mentor when I'm when I'm teaching traders, I see students say things like, "Right, I think Cable is going to bounce here." And lo and behold, cable has a perfect bounce right off the level they've anticipated. And I say to them, "Okay, so how much money did you make?" And they'll say, "I didn't trade it."
[00:18:43] I'll say, "Well, why not?" And they'll say, "Oh, you" and they'll come up with an excuse. Oh, well, I took a trade before and it lost money, so I second guessed myself and I didn't take it. Or um, you know, what have you. Or, I did take it and I got in and I got five pips into profit and it stalled and I got nervous and got out and I didn't manage to capitalize on the big move I expected. There's always an excuse. Um, but this is what I I guess what I'm saying is that this is what spurred me on because I could see that I had some talent. I just had to translate that talent into money, which is the hardest
[00:19:15] part of the game. Absolutely. So, at what point did you start to to turn the corner and start seeing some consistency? Like, were there any standout aha moments? What happened with me is that after a long while of betting too big, I had run my accounts right down. Like I I was back to basically having to bet really really small. And you know that was that was a problem for me for a long long time. My biggest psychological issue in trading was was
[00:19:47] trading my P&L. It was a problem when I was trading too large and it was a problem when I was trading too small. The problem when I was trading too small, and I I see people talk about this a huge amount. I think it resonates with a lot of people, is that what would happen is as a swing trader, I would sit there and I would wait. I would patiently stalk my trades. Okay? I never had a problem with anything like patience. Um, but I could sit there and I could sometimes wait a day or two for a trade if need be. And I would then eventually get in the trade, but because my accounts have been so depleted, I
[00:20:18] would be back to betting very small. So, I might bet something like one pound per pip increment that the that the FX pair moves. And I'd think, right, it's going to bounce from X level here to Y level here. And I would get in and it would have this, let's say, 30 pit bounce. And I would look at my P&L and I would be up, say, £30. And I'd think to myself, that's just nothing. That's just nothing for a whole day's work. So, I'm going to try and run this trade. And you know,
[00:20:48] you know what it's like? you come on to a higher time frame to try and justify running the position. So I go on to the daily time frame or the weekly or the monthly. Some time frame is going to corroborate the idea of running this. And many many times that trade would just come right back on me. So I'd be up 40 pips, it's back and I'm scratching it. I'd be up 30 pips, it comes back and I'm scratching it because I was always trying to run everything. Um, I say this to a lot of guys, um, when I when I hold webinars these days, I say when people,
[00:21:20] you know, they post on Twitter and they say, "I'm I'm in a trade and I'm up 2,000 pips on the Euro dollar." And they point to where they got in on the chart like 3 months ago. Either they're a hedge fund or they're a guy trading a microl lot. I'm telling you, because it's very, very difficult to hold those trades for long, long periods of time if you've got sizable amounts of your own capital on the line. Um, and it's, you know, it is a bit easier if you've got small amounts of money, but um, as I say, I didn't want to take these quick
[00:21:52] exits because I just felt like I wasn't making a lot of money. So, again, what I was doing is I was just trading my P&L. And the question that you asked me is was there a point when I you know I made that transition and I realized that I couldn't do this anymore and there was a specific point and that point was when I wrote to my mentor that was on the James 16th thread and I was very very disgruntled because I just couldn't make
[00:22:24] any money you know trading my P&L and I wrote to him and I said, "You know, this strategy is fantastic and I want to thank you for teaching me it, but ultimately I just can't make any money. I just keep trading my P&L." And of all the answers he could have given me at this point, right, to to to one of his students, what could he have said? He could have tried to uh help me get my, you know, to get my mojo back to to to feel good about myself again. He could have said, "Well, you know what?
[00:22:54] keep plugging away or, you know, don't trade your P&L or or anything. He could have said anything positive, but he didn't. He wrote back and he said, "Well, you gave it a go, but I guess you're not cut out to be a trader." And when he said that, I was like, "Oh, no, no, no. You didn't just tell me that. You did not just tell me that." And that really spurred me on because I'm I'm like an ultra competitive person and that's not always a good thing. Sometimes it can piss people off, but I
[00:23:25] am really, really competitive. And when somebody told me that I could not do it, that is when I was able to perform at the top of my game. Absolutely at the top of my game. I've always been like that. If we get on to later in the interview, I'll tell you about how I got into prop. It's the same thing. I only got into prop after they initially rejected me and told me I wasn't good enough, you know? So, it's it's kind of like um I have I need to be spurred on to do something. And when my
[00:23:56] mentor told me that I wasn't good enough, that for me was my breaking point. And at that point, I realized that, you know, either you change your destructive behavior or you bow out of the game. That's, you know, you've only got two two ways you can go at this stage. But I was not going to be told that I wasn't good enough. So I just I absolutely I said to myself right then that I was going to trade as small as it took to grow my accounts but grow my accounts is what I was going to do and I was going to come back in 6 months one
[00:24:26] year however long it took and say well you know what you were wrong I have done this um and as I say that that's what spurred me on that competitive uh nature that I've got that just that refusal to be told that I can't do something. Absolutely. I think that's a really great trait to have. Um, like you mentioned there. Um, so I mean that was going to be my next question was about how you got into prop. Like why did you decide to go and trade within a prop firm instead of continuing to trade on your own? So, so tell us a little bit
[00:24:57] about that. Right. So I was making money um at this stage and I' I'd kind of as I say I'd knuckled down. I was taking it seriously. I refused to trade my PNN anymore. I had to be uh very disciplined in order to just understand that I was going to have to bet small and grow, you know, slowly and that it wasn't, you know, it wasn't going to be um a sprint. I was going to have to be a marathon. A very cliched saying, but very true nonetheless. Um so, I was I was making money and I was I was showing growth,
[00:25:27] but it was quite slow. And I'd often, you know, I' I'd heard about prop firms and I' I'd often wondered if I could kind of fast track my progress by having, you know, access to more capital. But also at the same time, at this at this point, I've been profitable several months. And I started to think to myself, I wonder if there's any longevity in what I'm doing. I wonder how professional traders trade. I'm buying
[00:25:58] support. Uh I'm selling resistance. I'm using fib, you know, Fibonacci levels. There's nothing massively complex about what I'm doing. Basic price action at the time. And is this how pros trade? And I wanted to know the answer to that. So I thought, well, you know, let me see if I could get a job as a prop trader for a firm. So I made a kind of short list of firms. And one of the ones that appealed to me most was Futex because they would let you trade outrights cuz a lot of the firms at the time that I
[00:26:29] found they wanted you to they wanted you to trade spreads. So I went along to Futex to sit their assessments and uh after sitting the the assessments I got a rejection letter and I think that was most likely for my math ability because we had to sit a math test and my math is pretty poor. I mean I got a C for GCSE but it's pretty [ __ ] So, um, I failed that assessment. And when I got that letter through, um, saying, you
[00:26:59] know, okay, we're really sorry, but we're not going to take you. Reading between the lines, you're not good enough. You're not of the caliber that we want. That then fired me up. And again, I thought, well, okay, I'll tell you what I'm going to do now. I am going to trade even harder and I'm going to build a record and then we'll see if I can get in. And I wrote back to them um not long after I had I had such a good such a good streak in 2007 this was. And I wrote back to them and and I said,
[00:27:31] "You know what? Okay, you did reject me. Um but I've got a record here. Would you like would you be interested in having a look at it?" And I'll never forget the answer I got which was simply you've got heart. and he said, "Okay, fine." The the guy that responded said, "Okay, fine. Look, come for an interview. Bring your record." I took it. They had a look through it. They went through with a fine tooth comb, asked me a lot of questions about why I traded this, why I traded that. And they ended up backing me. And um it was it was a great time
[00:28:01] for me because I was able to watch the professionals um how they traded, um what they did, and I work with some incredible traders. I mean, I don't know if you if you know this, but I I sat for a while with NAV, who's the, you know, the um the trader that's now beingounded by the FBI that's, you know, made the $40 million, but has been accused of bringing down the US stock market. But I worked I worked alongside him. I worked alongside some incredible traders, and I learned so much about the game and that
[00:28:34] was really where my education kind of went to the next level. But I tell you something, Aaron, which was very very important um about this stage in my journey, which was that at this point, you know, a lot of a lot of times when you're trying to learn to trade, how do you know that anyone that you listen to is profitable? You don't, do you? If you go on Twitter or if you go on forums, people say, "Oh, this is my strategy. This is how I trade." But you don't know whether that guy is making
[00:29:05] any money. You don't know. So if you start trading and the strategy doesn't work very well initially um or you can't implement it effectively initially, you start to have these doubts creeping in. Is this guy that's teaching me this even really profitable? And it plays with your mind. The thing is about being in prop is you were sitting next to guys and you could see people making money day in day out, but you could also see people making insane amounts of money. And that really told you categorically
[00:29:38] black and white evidence every day this is possible and and you know the power of that is is is pretty astounding. Absolutely. No 100%. Now while you were in prop what were some of the greatest lessons or the trading principles that were really drilled into you from trading within that firm? I think I mean I learned so much that it's hard to kind of drill it down to um to any one thing, but
[00:30:09] for me one of the I suppose one of the greatest lessons that I had was just um the ability to understand that the market could be beaten and to focus because all of these people that were making these huge this, you know, this huge amount of money, they were so focused in what they did and they knew knew their markets. They knew their markets so well. And I kind of realized at that time just how much you had to put into the game to to get
[00:30:42] to that level. Um, so you know, how indepth you had to know your market from a fundamental perspective, from a technical perspective. And you know, it was I I think that was just really it was that kind of it it was understanding how seriously these guys approached the market that that I think was one of my one of my biggest lessons. But, you know, like I say, it's hard for me to to to give you specific examples cuz I took so much from so many different angles. Um, another thing was was composure under
[00:31:13] pressure. You know, watching guys have big down days and not seeing it rattle their confidence at all. you know, seen them be able to walk up the office, head held high with a big smile on their face, and you knew for a fact that the guy was down a massive amount on the day. Like, we're talking tens of thousands of pounds. And and again, it kind of it drilled into you that right mindset that you didn't you didn't have a pro trader, you know, get his ass
[00:31:43] handed to him on a day and then turn up the next day and go, "Oh, I'm [ __ ] scared. I'm scared to click the mouse. So, you know, I don't know what to do. And it and it just it made you stronger, if that makes sense. It it it kind of made a man of you, I guess, if if that's the the right way of describing it. One thing that I learned that that that really stood out and really made a big difference for me personally is understanding that support or understanding that
[00:32:14] there's no such thing as a free trade, right? So um a lot of people move to break even very very quickly and they say that they you know they've got a free trade and I was taught you know not to think like that. Um and I had a big big problem with this nowadays. So um because I found that I would keep moving to break even in the early days because it is you know it is comforting to to to know that your you know your risk is eradicated on the trade. But I just simply found that it didn't work because
[00:32:45] the market would keep coming back, knocking me out and then going in the direction that I'd anticipated. And at one point, one of the guys there that was a huge trader had kind of taken me under his wing. And we actually spoke about this and I said, you know, I just got stopped out at break even again and that that damn market has moved, you know, right where I thought it would. And he said to me, why are you moving to break even? And I said, "Look, I bought this, you know, this level and it, you
[00:33:15] know, it moved up. I can't remember now, but let's say it moved up 20 ticks and it's come back. You know, I don't want to take a loser on it at that point." And he said to me, "Look, if you buy support, right, which is why you got in that trade and it goes up 20 ticks and it comes back to the support level. What are you doing? You're you're scratching the trade. You're puking it right into support." What? Because you don't want to lose money. That doesn't make any sense. Like, you're literally trading your P&L. um you're focused on the P&L. And he said to me, trade the [ __ ] market, you know, don't trade your P&L.
[00:33:47] And it was a really really powerful lesson for me. And again, it's kind of aligned with that that whole, you know, that principle of when people get in trades and they get up a huge amount of money and they move to break even just so they can't lose. I've seen people that maybe are going for a 100 tick target and they're up 90 ticks and they say, "Right, I'm moving to break even now. free trade, nothing to worry about. And I'm thinking, nothing to worry about? How about you worry about the fact that you're risking 90 ticks to make 10? Like, that's pretty worrying.
[00:34:20] Um, people make a huge mistake of not realizing that riskreward evolves during the trade. It's not a static concept that you have at, you know, trade outset. So you can start a trade with you know going for a 3 to1 riskreward but there'll be points in the trade where you know that might have massively diminished and the odds you know are now against you. So this was again something that I took from a very you know very large trader just basically not to trade my P&L by constantly you know hunting
[00:34:51] for the you know for the free trade and you know to and to remember that that riskreward evolves and it was a very very powerful lesson and I I I don't think I'd be where I am now without you know without having had that lesson. Aaron that's awesome. That's really cool. Um so let's keep this moving and let's dig in now to a little bit about um your trading style and your approach. So tell us what are you looking for and how do you identify opportunities? Okay. So um on any given day I have certain things that I look at. So I look
[00:35:22] at for example basic support and resistance levels um in the market like on the higher time frames like weekly and daily. I also look at them on 60-minute charts and I look at the basic structure of the market. So where are for example major trend lines, where are the major Fibonacci retracement points and what I try to do is I try to um map the market and essentially what I'm doing is I'm trying to play the market from one level to the next as it were.
[00:35:54] Um, but the big thing with me, what I think about a lot of the time when I'm trading is where does the market have to go to facilitate trade because that is all that the market is there to do. So I try to think where's this market got to go, where's it got to test to try and advertise for a larger amount of buyers and sellers than normal. And I find um that a lot of the time the best trades often really kind of fall in the face of
[00:36:26] what you would expect. So for example, um I like to see a resistance being hit multiple times and then I like to see price just stopping and just going quiet and just trading very quietly just underneath that resistance level. Now, when I see that, I know that that's often a really good opportunity to try and buy. But a lot of traders will look at that and they'll say, "A resistance level hit multiple times. That must mean the resistance is really strong." And
[00:36:57] now price is just stopping just underneath it. That means that, you know, the the the market is running out of steam. Uh there's no momentum up here and we're about to roll over and go to the downside. And so, they get short. In actual fact, in that kind of situation, the market is often not very likely to probe above that resistance area to try and take stops. It will try and get traders up there um to initiate and buy the breakout and it will try and get the shorts to puke. So, it will try and
[00:37:27] probe that area. Um note that I say probe, not break out, okay? Because a lot of people, even if they do get the idea right that we're that we're likely to trade up through that area, they get shafted expecting a 200 tick move. So, they buy it as it goes through and they get caught. So, what I like to try and do is a lot of time try and anticipate that the market is going to break out of a range and and often times I will take a position in a range. And it's weird because I found that to be highly effective over the years, but it again
[00:37:59] it flies in the face of what a lot of people are taught because a lot of people will say, well, you know, you don't buy in a range. You wait for price to confirm before you buy. But but often times once it confirms, it's too late. So that's just a kind of that's one of the things I look at. Um I'm I'm very keen on finding trapped traders, traders that get caught. Um, and you often see this at at kind of key reference points on the charts like major swing highs or swing lows. Um,
[00:38:31] and I like to try and take advantage of them. In fact, one of my actual favorite uh setups is when you get a large gap on the open. That's why I'm always watching the the Sunday night open, particularly in Forex, is when you get a large gap and the price travels in the direction of the gap. So, for example, if we gap up and the market starts then exploding to the upside and then we get an auction failure beyond the big reference point. So, for
[00:39:02] example, it pushes up, we get a big uh key swing high, the market breaks that swing high but can't close above it. And so we we've got failure up there. And when I see that, particularly with an open gap, um I will usually look to fade that uh that market momentum back towards a gap close. And it's just one of the setups that I see a lot of which has a you know, which has a very high expectancy. Um but the thing is the market it's inherently curious. That's something that you have to understand as
[00:39:34] a trader. The market is just very very curious. And a lot of the time um it needs the comfort of knowing what is beyond certain areas before it can move with confidence in in in another direction. So for example, a lot of people say uh they'll notice that the market will break a support level before it can rally, right? It needs to break the support level to know is there any sellers down there? Is there anyone doing business on the short side? If there's not, great. We can move to the
[00:40:05] upside now with confidence. Um, but the market, you know, a lot of the time the market, it likes to probe these areas. It likes to see what's going on before it can move. And that's what I'm that's what I'm looking for when I trade. I'm looking to see what is going on at these areas. Um, are people getting caught? Um, getting caught short, getting caught long, and and and what is the what is the market doing? um based on what everybody thinks
[00:40:36] it should do. So to give you an example of this, sometimes you get um you get sentiment, right? You get very strong sentiment on a market. So let's say for example uh well there's a good example the other day in the bund right now the bund had broken on a daily chart. It had broken a key swing low on the daily time frame and it closed below it and it was a very wide ranging down day. Now, I have my ear to the ground. Uh I'm I'm listening to other traders. I I use Twitter a lot for this and I'm I'm
[00:41:07] listening to what the professional traders are saying. Um and again, going back to prop, what are the prop traders, the guys that I've worked with that I know uh make a lot of money, what are they thinking about this market? And I would see that, you know, the vast majority of them are bearish. Right now that gives me information that the professionals, the guys trading size think this market is going to go down. So now what I'm really interested in is what the market does. And then on that particular day, you'd see that the market just could not break lower. It
[00:41:38] just couldn't go. And that was a really interesting sign. And you get armed with a lot of information there because if people are if the chart is technically very bearish and the sentiment is very bearish, but the market won't break, you need to be long. You need to be looking for a long. And you know, if you're not long, well, okay, fine. But God forbid you're short that market. So, um, I try and take on a lot of information uh from from different angles to try and make a
[00:42:09] decision. But in short, to kind of summarize, I'm looking to find out, I guess, where um where traders pain thresholds are and try and really capitalize on them, which is not a very nice thing to say, but if you can take advantage of a trapped trader, you can, you know, there's there's money to be made there. And people, you know, people get caught on a daily basis and it's it's not too hard to tell once you've studied the market what the signs are when they're likely to be caught.
[00:42:39] Yeah. Well, I mean, that's just the reality of trading, isn't it? That's just how the market operates. So, now from what I understand, you know, the setups you want to trade, right? But you don't necessarily trade them in a systematic kind of fashion. So beside your own criteria that defines the setup, what else do you need to see before taking a position? I think it's probably that qualitative um aspect coming into play. Can you elaborate on that a little bit? Yeah, I mean I am a I'm a discretionary trader.
[00:43:10] So I don't you're right. I don't trade certain setups systematically because what I'm trying to look for is I'm trying to look for um I'm looking for kind of or taking on information from so many different angles and I'm trying to kind of build um a picture of the market. So I can't really bring it down to anything as simplistic as well when I see X pattern I need to then go go ahead and do Y. Um, this was a mistake that I
[00:43:42] think a lot of a lot of people make when they first get into the game is they they see um they read about a basic pattern like for example a candlestick pattern and they read like uh okay if you see um if you see a hammer that's that's bullish and that means that you know the market is is likely to go up and and they they break it down to its lowest common denominator which basically means right I see hammer I get long right and a lot of the time what you've got to do is you've got to take on the information from a lot of
[00:44:14] different angles. You know, what is the where is what time frame is that hammer appearing on? Um maybe it's a daily, so what's happening on the weekly charts? What news have we got out? What's the sentiment like at the moment? How is this market been moving lately? Um where is this hammer appearing in terms of the context of, you know, is is it appearing around prior support resistance? Is it appearing in the middle of nowhere? Um and so on and so forth. So, it's it's very difficult to be systematic because you're trying to, you know, you're trying to take on this information um
[00:44:46] and and deal with those different variables. Okay. Now, that's a great answer. So, how do you determine whether or not the trade before you get into it has a worthwhile risk-to-reward before entering? Do you have profit targets or or how do you judge that before you get into it? Right. So whenever I get into whenever I'm looking at a trade, looking to get into a trade, I have an idea um of where I'm looking to take profit and I have a you know a firm idea of where
[00:45:17] I'm wrong on the trade. So then what I've got to think about is is that riskreward ratio good enough to merit taking the trade. Now, um I guess I I differ from a lot of traders in this in this respect because there are a lot of people that are um taught to always go for a 2:1 or always go, you know, for a 3:1 or what have you. And that is good. Don't get me wrong. The higher that your reward to risk ratio is, the better for sure. And I wouldn't dispute that. But what I would say is that it's it is um
[00:45:51] dependent your edge is dependent on your riskreward ratio combined with your strike rate. If you have a high strike rate, you don't need a high riskreward ratio to make money. So um I'm aware that I can get away because of my strike rate with a with a riskreward ratio of 1 one. I don't like going lower than 1 one, although I've worked out over time that I can get away with it. uh just going fractionally lower than a one one like a 0.9R but generally I'll look for one one or higher. Um now obviously I
[00:46:25] want to get as high as I can. So one of the things that I do is I try to establish very early on in the trade is this a trade that I am going to try and run. That's really a key question for me and I think it should be a key question for all traders because a lot of traders get into the trade and they find that managing it is the hardest thing and a lot of time managing it is hard because they don't know they don't have an expectation of where they think it's going to go. They just they they they get in and they think well the market is likely to react here. Maybe we're a bit
[00:46:56] overdone to the upside or the downside or this is a this is a big trend line that we've just broken out of. I think it can tank but tank how far, you know. So, you've got to have an idea. And what I try to do is I try, you know, I have two types of trades. I have those where I feel that the market is poised from a higher time frame to make a big move. And then I'm going to get in on a lower time frame like the 60 minute and try and enter that trade and run it sometimes for the whole day, sometimes even for longer to try and capitalize on
[00:47:26] a bigger move. But the other type of trade is is where I will literally play from one level to the next intraday. So it might hit a support and trade up to the next level. Um and I, you know, as you would expect, I'll find the trades where I will run onto a higher time frame will be the ones that pay out in terms of giving me a higher uh riskreward ratio. But I don't um I always I trade the market, right? I don't trade riskreward. So what I mean by that is sometimes I see people
[00:47:59] uh they they come into the they come into the market and they say okay so I'm planning on taking this trade and I'm buying let's say this support level and I think it's going to go up to the next level and they look at that trade and they say well h but that's only got that's only got a one one riskreward. I've really been told I should get a 2:1. So I tell you what I'm going to do. I'm still going to take that trade, but I'm going to make my stop tighter. Or I'm still going to take that trade, but I'm going to make my target bigger. And
[00:48:29] you see what they're doing there is they're completely ignoring the structure of the market. They're trying to impose their riskreward on the market. And to me, that's crazy because you got to trade the market. You know, the market doesn't give two shits about your riskreward ratio. So, you know, if you're not trading the market, what are you trading? And I think again, that's where a lot of people a lot of people go wrong. I really like that point. I'm glad you brought that up about um sort of trading the actual market and not trying to imply your your views onto the market
[00:49:01] and try to make them fit. So, no, I really appreciate you you bringing that up. That's excellent. Um now, just like to to keep moving. So, now that we've covered your your strategy, your approach to trading, let's get into some more general advice for other traders. Now, one of the things I've heard you speak about in the past, which I found quite interesting, was again going back to how you used to work um or trade within a prop firm. You said that everyone who came in was given access to the same technology, the same equipment,
[00:49:32] same coaching, learning, all of that. Yet still only a small amount would become profitable. So, I guess two questions to come from that. Why is trading so damn hard? And were there any obvious differences between the the few who made it and the majority who didn't catch on? I think that's a it's such a good question and it's it's difficult to answer. It really is. Um it's like the million-dollar question. Why do some people make it and others don't? Um and
[00:50:03] it's it's the question that everybody wants answered. Um, you know, a lot of people make the mistake of thinking that just because anyone can open an account and they can buy and sell that anyone can be a trader. And this could not be further from the truth. Like this game requires a specific skill set. You've got to be wired a certain way to be able to make money. That's just a fact, you know. Um, you have to be able, for example, to react quickly to huge numbers of
[00:50:34] variables. You have to be able to act with ruthless decisiveness and commit to a position, but then in the next breath be able to completely change your mind if necessary. You got to be able to cope with insane pressure to be able to get knocked down and get back up to stay strong, to stay resilient, to stay focused for long periods of time. And you know, some people simply are not built this way. Um, now a lot of people will will come right back at you then and say, "Well, but can you learn these traits?"
[00:51:05] And that's really hard because sometimes to learn them you have to change your entire personality. And I guess you know some traits are easier to learn than others if you're determined enough. But if you are determined enough is the key phrase. I mean let's for example take patience. The the patience to wait for you know a good trade. Um a lot of people just you know they just don't have this patience. Um, I've I
[00:51:35] personally got the patience for Saint. I mean, I can stalk a trade for days and weeks if I have to, but ironically, I don't have a lot of patience with people that come to me and say, "Oh, I can't find the patience to wait for a good setup." You know, patience is a basic and essential skill that you need. And the way I see it, you know, if you can't find it, get another job. Um, people often turn to a trading psychology book, right? Well, to find patience. Seriously. Um, you know, it's like Nike said, you
[00:52:05] know, just do it, man. Um, here's another one, right? You you get someone that that they take a couple of trades and they lose money and now they're scared to take the third and they're reading all these like, you know, these books on psychology. I mean, can you imagine for a second, imagine getting a job as a salesman, right? And they give you some leads to call and the first call you make, someone just slams the phone down on you. And the second one you call, the guy just tells you to [ __ ] off straight away. So the third call comes along and you say to your boss, you know, I'm a little bit scared
[00:52:37] to call the third guy on the list. I mean, what do you think the guy's going to do? He's What do you think your boss is going to do? He's going to hand you a self-help book or he's going to show you the door. You know, at the end of the day, um there are certain skills, certain character traits that that are hard to come by, but something like patience, you know, you you've just got to have it. you need to take a look at yourself in my opinion and think this is a skill that I have got to have and I've just, you know, I've got to I've got to just get it. Um I got to sit down and I've got to make sure I I have it or
[00:53:08] I've got absolutely no chance. Um so when it comes to even being, you know, being nervous to take the third trade after two losers, look, you know, how are you going to deal with this? You should trade live. Trade small as you can, but I I don't agree with trading on demo. That's just that's just for me personally. I don't believe it teaches you the right psychology. But trade live, trade small, build a record and and get some stats together so that you you know when you go into draw down, you
[00:53:38] you know, you look at your stats and you know in the long term you're profitable because you know, everybody gets draw down. Everybody gets draw down. This is a guessing game, right? and you're, you know, you're a gambler at the end of the day as a trader and you're going to have losing streaks. Everyone, every professional trader will have a losing streak. Um, the only people that don't have losing streaks are Twitter traders. So, you know, um, ultimately, I guess the point I'm trying to make is that a
[00:54:09] lot of these guys that I worked with, right, they were they were wired up in the right way and they didn't need a psychology book. they, you know, when when when they didn't when they thought, okay, I haven't had a lot of patience on the last trade, they just sat down and they thought, I need patience and that's what I'm gonna have. And they learned, you know, to have these skills and and very very quickly, even if they maybe didn't have them when they came into the firm, they got them real quick. Uh the longer that it takes you to
[00:54:39] acquire a skill, the more likely you are to drop out of the game before you eventually get where you want to be. Um some people you know often often ask me how is it that I still kept going after seven years because I didn't get profitable until 2007 but placed my first trade in 2000. How did I have the strength to keep going? Um why did it take me so long? And and as I think I said at the beginning, the reason it took me so long is because I was a you know a very very
[00:55:11] slow learner. Um, I mean, I I traded these stocks for four years when there was absolutely no edge. You know, a baby could have told you there was no edge in doing that. I was still doing it for four years. It's like banging your head against a brick wall every day and and and expecting, you know, this it's not going to hurt. Um, so I think that, you know, if it takes you a long time, then, uh, this is this is a real danger. And for some people, it really, you know, it takes them a long time to learn and they just drop out the game. So, if you can learn from your mistakes quickly, you're more likely to
[00:55:43] make it. And I think these these guys that I worked with that that that got so big, they were able to just learn from mistakes very, very quickly and make sure they didn't make them again. Yeah, you hit on a ton of great points in that. That's an awesome answer. And something you did hit on there was um sort of losing streaks and going into um uh going into a draw down. So, I mean, as a day trader or as any trader, as a matter of fact, I'd imagine you have days when you're not on your game and
[00:56:14] you have it um and you have some kind of losing streak. How do you effectively manage these times? Well, you know, that's that's again a great question and you just have to keep your chin up and you just have to plow through it. I mean, that's the that's the only thing that I can say. You just have to you know, you have to keep going. Um, if it gets, you know, I mean, when I say keep going, I mean if you have a, you know, a down day or two, you you you've got to have the ability to come in on on on day number two or day
[00:56:46] number three and and be strong as if nothing's happened. But if you do get from time to time streaks that last uh a week, a fortnight, um you may find that it impacts you more and you know, you may you may need to do different things. I mean, something that that I will do from time to time if I if I do hit a bad run is take some time off. Um, they say time heals all wounds and it and it and it's completely true. Like, you know, at
[00:57:16] the end of the day, if you can just take even sometimes two or three days away from the market, it really can clear your head. But I think that one of the things or one of the elements that I am I guess fortunate in is that I have an overwhelming amount of self-belief and self-confidence. And I don't know where I get that from. Like I guess I'm just wired that way, you know? It's just it's it's something that I have which is fortunate for me in
[00:57:48] this career. But it's it takes an enormous amount to lock to to to knock me. And I would say honestly since I got profitable in 2007 and you know it's now 8 years on I would say I probably only had one period in that whole time uh where it was where it was really hard. Like looking back on it, it was really hard and I thought, you know what, I don't know how I'm going to keep doing this every day because it was just, you know, I was going through um a streak, a
[00:58:21] negative streak that lasted for weeks and I just couldn't make money. Like literally everything that I did turned to [ __ ] and that was really really hard. But again, um you know, you just you just plow through it. I mean, I I I I I don't think that what I'm saying is particularly helpful to people because they'll probably be thinking, well, well, how do you plow through it? You know, what's the what's the magic pathway? There isn't a magic pathway. You know, I if I if I come in and and I lose money every day this week coming, I
[00:58:51] know that I'm going to come in the week after strong. I just know it because it it just it doesn't phase me anymore, Aaron. And I don't think, like I say, I don't think that's really going to help your listeners. But I think I suppose it's one of my strengths that's hard to, you know, to pass on because I don't know what makes me like that. No, that's excellent. Now, you have a quote which um I really I really like it. I think it's an awesome quote and it goes, "If you're not working on your edge, someone else is." Now, I'd love it
[00:59:21] if you could expand on this for everyone listening and speak to the competitiveness of trading, right? That you know, you should know that there are guys working so hard, so hard on their edge. And it's often the guys that are huge that are working the hardest, right? Which is why they're huge. Um, you often hear
[00:59:52] people saying that they want to get into this game so they can make loads of money and they can retire and, you know, sit on a beach sipping panina coladas and, you know, placing a few trades from their laptop. The fact of the matter is is that these guys I worked with that have made enough money if they wanted to live that kind of lifestyle do not. They are the first in the office every morning and they are the last one to leave. And the reason that they've done so well is because of the amount of hours that they've put in. And they are
[01:00:23] the guys that are essentially taking your money. These are these are the people that have done the work that most people are not prepared to do. And at the end of the day, you're paying them, right? So, I'll give you an example. Um, when I was in prop, uh, and I often tell this story. There was, um, there was a couple of really big big guys there. uh we're talking like a couple of hundred grand a week that they would be making and they were huge and one day the one of the guys had had a
[01:00:54] stellar day. I don't know how much money he'd made but we we are talking a a lot of money and everybody was kind of you know had heard about it and there was a bit of a buzz and he was just you know he was he was just cool. he was just, you know, staying, you know, emotionally, uh, cool, but, you know, had a had a smile on his face and was chatting with some of the guys. And anyway, um, I left the office at about, I don't know, 5:00 and I got the train home. I got right to my front door and I realized that I'd left my key in the
[01:01:25] office to to my front door. So, I thought, I'm not going to call a locksmith. I'm going to have to go all the way back into central London to the office, get my key. So, I get all the way back to the office. By the time I get there, right, it's about half I reckon it's probably 9. Like the market is closed at this time. Took me ages to get back and the market is closed now. I come into the office, right? And all the lights in the office are out. There's just a little light on at the back of the office low. And so I'm like, okay, there's some somebody's here, but all
[01:01:56] the markets are closed. Lo and behold, there is one guy left in the office and it is that guy that had had that huge return and he is sitting there um recording his trades for the day and he's writing down you know what went well, what went badly and making a plan for the next day. And that to me was just it was a real eye opener because you know again most people are thinking to themselves if you know they they want to make money in this game to live the easy life and yet the reality of it is
[01:02:27] that most of these guys that have got all this money are working so hard a lot of them don't have balance in their lives. Um that's just the way it is. So when I say somebody is, you know, if you're not working on your edge, somebody else is, I mean that, you know, these are the kind of hours that people are putting in. They are taking this game seriously. They know their statistics. Um, they know their edge inside out and and back to front. I mean, I personally spend a lot of time uh number crunching. So I I I crunch a lot of things to, you know, when I see
[01:02:58] patterns in the market, I look at the the probabilities of certain things happening. And sometimes um I see guys call trades out for example on Twitter and I think to myself and I don't I honestly don't I don't want to come across in a kind of smug knowit all way because trust me I get it wrong massively wrong from time to time but sometimes I see people call these trades and I think to myself you know what if you'd have done your homework you would never be taking this trade because there's no you know there's there's very very little probability that you are
[01:03:29] going to see that um you know see that make money for example, I might see them um I don't know, trading a pattern that I know has a very very low strike rate. Um and and again, you know, it's not to say that that I'm always right, but this is what I mean when I say that people have done this work and a lot of the time they're the guys that, you know, the the newer traders are, you know, making illinformed decisions and and ending up paying the bigger guys that have done the work and and put that time and effort in. Yeah. So you you touched on it there and
[01:04:01] the the guy who made the the huge wins for the day, he was still at the office late, you know, he was the last one to leave. Do you yourself have a daily routine for preparation and reflection outside of market hours? And if so, I mean, what's the importance of keeping a trading journal? And and is it important like what's important to record? What should people be writing in their trading journals as a minimum? Well, the first thing I would say is that it's vital to have a, you know, to have a trading journal. Um, most people don't
[01:04:31] and, you know, even if they do, they maybe just log the trades, but they don't really examine them with the aim of increasing performance. You really have to look at your journal hard and, you know, and and really try and answer three questions, right? Number one, how can I make more money from my winners? Number two, how can I lose less money from my losers? And number three, how can I get more trade ideas? Okay. Um, now in terms of journal, um, I would like to, you know, plug a company called
[01:05:02] Edgewink. And I came across Edgewink recently, and I think that they are doing incredible things in the field of of journaling. I wish that that had been around when I started out. You know, I would have probably got profitable a hell of a lot quicker. Um, but you know, they're doing great things out there, but ultimately there are so many traders out there that just do the same thing day in day out and they keep expecting a different return, but they're not getting anywhere. Now, I'll give you an example. I worked with a guy a while
[01:05:32] back and he was really going nowhere, but he'd never taken a proper proper look at himself and his record and where he was going wrong. He would just say to me, "Oh, Tom, I think the problem is I'm making money. I'm giving it back. making it, giving it back. I'm treading water. I just don't think there's anything really in my strategy. I think I need to learn a different strategy. And so I said, "Well, hold on. Let's have a look at actually what you're what you're doing. Can I have a look at your trade journal?" And he'd actually got a trade journal. So, you know, kudos to him for having a trade journal. He had it and he
[01:06:05] sent it over. Now, the first thing I noticed was that this guy's traded size was totally inconsistent. like one day he's doing a four lot with an eight tick stop, the next day he's doing a one lot with a 10 tick stop. It made absolutely no sense. So I asked him what was up with that. I said, "Why are you varying your size so much?" And he said, "Well, two reasons. Um I'm varying it based on um my degree of confidence in the setup. So if I see a setup I really like, I put more size on." And he said, "And
[01:06:36] sometimes I vary it based on confidence in my own ability. like if I'm if I've had a bad couple of days, I'll lower my size. So I thought, okay, this is this is not good. Um, but I said, okay, let's start with the setup. What makes you risk a five lot on setup A, but only a one lot on setup B to quantify that for me? And he says, right, setup A is more likely to win. So I said, right, but okay, but based on what? What's the expectancy of it? So I'm expecting to give me a strike rate, an average win versus average loss, you know, some stats. and he says, "No, no, no. Just
[01:07:08] gut feel." So, I'm thinking, right, so basically, you know, when you've just got a good gut feeling, you're risking more. Okay, that is that for a start is is clearly not working for you. We can see that from your performance. Um, but then the next bit is even more problematic because it turns out that like many people, he'll do a two lot, right? He'll do a two lot trade and if that two lot trade loses money, the next trade he'll do a four lot to try and make the money back quicker. Now, if that loses, he completely shits himself
[01:07:38] and the next trade is on a one lot. And so many people do this. So they'll get, you know, um a loser and that loser they they try and revenge trade it and because they're not in the right emotional mindset, they've upped their size and they then get really hit hard and then rather than just take a break and come in um and and and refocus, they then get so nervous that they they go right back to tiny size and then of course sods law they immediately get a winner. Um, and but you know, it's on
[01:08:09] such a small size, it's had no impact really for them. And anyway, lo and behold, what I found out is over a decent sample size of trades, this guy had a really positive expectancy, but the guy's down money. And this thing happens to a lot of people on a much bigger scale. He had no idea that his that he had a winning strategy. All he thought is, I'm not making anything. The strategy doesn't work. And he hadn't realized it was due to varying his size. But when you crunch the numbers, it tells you that if he took every single
[01:08:41] trade on a one lot or every single trade on a five lot, he would have made money and he would have made a lot of money. Um, but again, people don't look at this. Um, something else, and I won't get, you know, I won't go too into this now, but but something else is always worthwhile looking at is your maximum adverse excursion. So, how far do your winning trades go against you? Um, let's assume for a second that you've got uh a fixed strategy where you have a 50 tick stop on every single trade and you have,
[01:09:13] I don't know, a 50 tick target. So, you're going for a one R and let's, you know, let's just assume that you win 100% of your trades. You win every trade. I know that's never going to happen, but let's just assume it. Um, now you could look at your stats and if you find out that the furthest price went against you in your sample size was six ticks, let's say, then guess what? you've realized your stop is way too wide. You're using a 50 tick stop, but you you know the furthest price ever went against you was six ticks. You could massively reduce your stop and you
[01:09:43] know your your expectancy would go through the roof. But there's a lot of people out there that are just busy, you know, patting themselves on the back going, "Look, I've won 100% of my trades. You know, I'm absolutely killing it." But they're not working on moving forward. And this is something that, you know, you you should never forget is that you can always always improve. there is nobody out there that can't improve in this game and that can't do something better. So for me, a journal is just is a very important thing because I come to it usually every
[01:10:13] quarter I review my journal and like I say, I'm trying to answer one of those questions and try and find a better way um to to do things. And once you found a better way to do things, you know, you've you've got to implement that. Um, but yeah, I do think it's all about ultimately having a journal and and recording the right things and studying it. And if you want to know what to record, the the the best way to do it is is in my opinion to at least go on YouTube and have a look at Edgewalk's videos because they really they really
[01:10:44] go to town on it. It's like their thing. It's what they know. Yeah, that sounds really cool. I'm going to check that out myself and I'll also put a link to it in the show notes as well. So yeah, I mean if if you recommend it, I encourage that other people check it out also. Um now I want to dig into just a couple of the things that I spotted on your Twitter feed. Um and the first one would be the the video you recently made. It's a parody video um on so-called trading gurus which has been getting a little bit of attention
[01:11:14] and I mean I thought it was quite entertaining. I got a good laugh from watching it. What was your reason for doing this? I mean I presume you feel some kind of way about those who present themselves as gurus and maybe not qualified to do so. You know you know thing is Aaron I make a lot of jokes right and everybody knows that and I feel that sometimes it's the only thing that kind of keeps the stress at bay because it is quite a stressful job and you need to have the ability to look at the market and just laugh you know from time to time. sometimes there
[01:11:46] there are just the most ridiculous moves and you know if you don't laugh you're going to end up crying you know with your head in your hands. So I think it helps to have a sense of humor but regarding that that video that specific video there are so many people that just talk [ __ ] in this industry and I can't help but want to parody it sometimes. Um, you know, for example, those that that spout cliches like, "Try not to think about the money." Right? Now, that's actually very good advice, but they'll be saying, "Try not to think about the money, and then their
[01:12:16] Instagram page is full of Ferraris and Lamborghinis, and I'm staying at the Hilton, and I'm drinking Crystal." It's total nonsense. And aspiring to that lifestyle is what kills people in the end. Um, the other thing that I tried to kind of parody in that video is just ridiculous hindsight analysis that a lot of people sort of post. Um, and that really that that really gets to me. So, my personal favorite is is is when people just kind of say, well, this is where you should have been long or this way you should have been short. And you're thinking, well, yeah, no [ __ ]
[01:12:48] It's been a massive move. Yeah, I you know, I wish I had been. But, um, you you do see that. And and of course something else you see a lot is when people they say like all right there's a big trend line here now the market could rally from this trend line but also the trend line could break and if it breaks the market could go down but it could also force break and then rally so watch out for that too. And basically like every single contingency is covered but they're not telling you anything. Like the person watching literally doesn't know if they need a [ __ ] or a haircut. Like they just don't know what to do
[01:13:19] with that information. So, I kind of like I just wanted to make a joke, I suppose, out of, you know, people that that make all these videos and they're selling you the dream, but at the same time, they're not telling you anything useful at all. Um, the funny thing is, Aaron, it kind of backfired on me because I think a few people actually did take it seriously. So, like I saw like a few people on forums were kind of saying, "Oh, you know, Trader Dante's really gone downhill now. You know, look at this analysis on cable. It's completely useless." this and I'm thinking, [ __ ] you know, you guys
[01:13:50] haven't realized that's a parody. But I mean, I thought it was pretty obvious from watching it, but I mean, um, some people don't catch on to that. On a more serious note, what you said uh, the other day in one of your tweets is you said, "If you think the cost of this game is merely in the amount of money it takes to learn it, you're seriously deluded." So, what is the real cost to succeed? And what was your what's your thoughts behind that? Well, now now you set up with that question. You know, we can't we definitely can't end with that question because the
[01:14:22] answer is so depressing. But um you know, the cost of learning the game is is not just in the money because there is a a toll that I think that the the market takes on a trader. There is a huge amount of stress that a trader goes through and along with that stress you usually experience um a whole host of emotions you know fear, frustration, anger, depression. Uh a lot of people focus so hard that they get burnt out
[01:14:54] after a while. Um there is an impact on your health. I honestly do believe that. And also on your relationships as well. I mean you know it's it's it's difficult. Um, I find it difficult myself and I'm a profitable trader to sit in a study for 10 hours a day and sometimes just get literally my ass handed to me by, you know, by the market and then, you know, come out and and and see, you know, my girlfriend and her daughter and just act like everything's perfect and, you know, oh, hi, how's it going? You know, and and and act really
[01:15:25] happy. You know, it has a toll and it especially has a toll in the beginning when you're when you're not used to this because trading is a really cruel and really emotionally draining experience. And I understand that I won't talk anyone out of trying it by telling them this. No one's going to go, "Oh, I heard you can make millions trading forex, but uh this chap trader danty on the internet says it's stressful, so I don't think I'll give it a go." I know I'm not going to talk anyone out of it, but I try to prepare people for the assault on
[01:15:55] their spirit that the market is going to make likely for the first few years and probably even longer. Um, because I think, you know, as I say, people just sort of think that the cost of trading is limited to how much they paid for a course or a book or how much they lost trying to learn it. Um and I you know I I do think that many do pay um a different cost if only if only in time as well. Um you do find that the a lot of the biggest and best traders will
[01:16:29] will confirm that and and will say there is a cost. It is negative. It is depressing but you know I honestly do believe it to be the truth. Baron. Yeah, I think that's really good and I mean Tom, we are going to end on that note because I mean I think it's good that people, you know, I mean most of the listeners appreciate that and they they want the truth, you know, they they can accept that. So um I mean we've been we've hit on just over an hour now, so we should probably start to wind this down. But um I mean that was a brilliant answer and I mean your your answers throughout this interview have been on
[01:16:59] point. Really really good. So thank you very much for doing this. I really appreciate it and I'm sure the listeners are going to also. Fantastic. Fantastic. Well, I've really enjoyed um I've really enjoyed speaking with you, Aaron. It's been great. So, thank you very much. Well, before you go, do you want to share with listeners where they can go to find out more about you um and connect with you? Sure. I mean, if I've got a website which is www.trader-danti.com. D. Dante is my middle name, by the way.
[01:17:30] Um, so that's that's why the trader danty. Someone once accused me of making it up because they said it sounded mysterious. It is actually on my passport. Um, and but I mean I'm I think that most people, you know, know me via Twitter. So on on Twitter, I'm @ trader uh Danty. Okay. And uh yeah, I I post quite a lot of stuff during the day. So, uh, you know, I always, uh, always appreciate, uh, appreciate the follow.
[01:18:01] Awesome. Well, I mean, I encourage everyone to to make their way over to Twitter and, uh, follow along because, I mean, you do post a lot of great stuff on Twitter, so I mean, a lot of value in just following along. So, again, Tom, thank you very much for doing this. Take care and let's talk soon. Cool. Thanks a lot, Aaron. Take care. Okay, and that brings us to the end of another episode. So, thank you very much for tuning in and I'm sure you'll agree with me that Tom was a standout guest. Just a whole ton of raw insight that he
[01:18:32] was able to share with us. So, I really appreciate Tom coming on and having done this. And I'm glad you've now had the opportunity to to listen to it and absorb some of that as well. Now, just like to give a friendly reminder about the coaching service that is now available uh at chatwithtraders.com/coaching. So, just to refresh your memory, this is one-on-one coaching. Uh, so it's just you and a professional trader speaking about your trading and how you're going to move forward from here. So,
[01:19:02] there's currently three trading coaches on the team. Um, they're readily available and they're prepared to block out their time and they have one focus which is just to help you improve and achieve better results as a trader. These are three genuine traders. So, the there's uh Chris Se who was a guest on the podcast for episode 33. He's a swing trader. Uh we've got Zackuritz who was on episode 11 and episode 25. He's a day trader uh with a great emphasis on VWAP.
[01:19:34] Um both equities and options, very knowledgeable on both. And thirdly, we've also got Brad Gelenic who was a guest on episode 26 of the Chat with Traders podcast. He's a prop trader from Chicago uh with a great focus on intraday moves within global futures markets. So he's a futures guy through and through. Very knowledgeable. He's been trading since around uh 2003. So a lot of experience there. So if you guys want to find out more about this coaching service, just go to chatwithtraders.com/coaching.
[01:20:07] And I mean one-on-one coaching is really where it's at. I mean if you listen to you know a number of the interviews you'll notice there's a common theme that many of the pro traders who have gone on to reach you know high levels of success have done so with the guidance of someone who's played the role of a trading coach a trading mentor uh in their life. So it really really helps uh your results and I'm sure you know I I really do hope that some of you guys get
[01:20:37] some true value from from doing these sessions. So, chatwithtraders.com/coaching. Go there, check it out. Plenty more info. Again, if you have any questions about it, just shoot me an email. My email address is aaron@ chatwithtraders.com and I can answer any questions you have. Um, anything you're unsure about, just let me know. All right, guys. Have an awesome week and let's talk very soon. [Music] You've come to the end of this episode of Chat with Traders, but don't worry,
[01:21:09] more great episodes are on the way. To stay updated with each great new episode, be sure to subscribe to the podcast in iTunes. And we'd love it if you leave us a rating and review. We'll see you next time on Chat with Traders. [Music] [Applause] I'm better.
[01:21:42] [Music]
