# 303 · Chris Vermeulen - From Tick to Trend, Day Trading to Wave Riding
# source: YouTube auto-captions (en-orig) https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Rmuqqd5bjW8

[00:00:01] Chat with Traders is sponsored by Plus 500. >> Ever thought about dipping your toes into futures trading but felt lost in all the jargon? I get it. Trading can seem overwhelming at first, but here's the thing. With Plus 500's futures platform, you don't need to be a financial expert to get started. With Plus 500, you can access a wide range of markets. S&P 500, NASDAQ, Bitcoin, natural gas, forex, metals, crypto, and more. It's like having the entire financial market in your pocket since
[00:00:32] you can also trade right from your phone. Open your account with Plus 500 and start trading with as little as $100. >> That's right, Ian. And if you don't want to risk even a penny, Plus 500 offers an unlimited risk-free demo account packed with real charts and tools to help you practice and build confidence before jumping in with real money. With over 20 years of experience and over 30 million global customers, Plus 500 is your trusted gateway to the futures market. Click on the link in the description to open your free account. Trading in
[00:01:03] futures involves the risk of loss and is not suitable for everyone. Not all applicants will qualify. >> Active traders, as you know probably, the more you trade, the more likely you are to lose money. Trading is not easy. Uh unfortunately, active traders tend to have uh in general they're very emotional. They tend to lose and struggle. They can't follow strategies because the news scares them out and they've skipped trades or don't want to get out of a loser because they don't want to be proven wrong. They won't get
[00:01:34] out of a winner because it's working. It's like it's I built up enough wealth that I'm like, you know what? I just want to manage my large amount of capital in the easiest way possible where I have the fewest trades per year. I can make the highest possible return with the lowest risk. Really, I only have 5 to 12 trades a year. It allows us to all just live our life, do the things we want, and pull money out of the market without all the emotions and without the news and the stress. We could care less with what the president does and tariffs and the Fed does and
[00:02:06] all that stuff. It doesn't matter because we just follow the price action. Our strategy says, "Hey, things are getting weak. Move out of this asset. Uh things are getting strong, move into this asset. Here's here are the targets. Here's how we manage portfolio allocation. One ETF or two ETFs, I can manage my entire portfolio. I like those big big moving beasts because they're liquid. There's more to life than just glued to a screen and working, you know, trying to make day trades. >> Markets, speculation, and risk. This is
[00:02:36] the Chat with Traders podcast [Music] >> and we're back on Chat with Traders. I'm Tessa, your co-host and we're in episode 303. I hope you're having a great summer so far for those in the Northern Hemisphere and thank you for tuning into our show from all over the world. We really appreciate you. In today's episode, my co-host Ian chats with a position
[00:03:07] trader, entrepreneur, and author. What happens when a teenager growing up without TV in rural Canada stumbles across CNBC in a college dorm and sees people making up to $100,000 in a day. For Chris Vermulan, that moment changed everything and kicked off a 25-y year long journey of trading triumphs, painful losses, and profound strategy shifts. Chris has been through the tech bubble, the 2008 financial crisis, and
[00:03:38] everything in between. But he doesn't chase headlines or hype. He follows price, momentum, and something most traders overlook entirely, market vibration and cycles. From blowing up accounts to walking away from day trading altogether, Chris now rides the market's waves with a calm, calculated edge, making just 5 to 12 meaningful trades a year, knowing when to sit still and wait for the right wave. His
[00:04:10] approach might challenge what you believe about risk, emotion, and diversification. Ladies and gentlemen, we're so pleased to introduce Chris Vermulan from Canada. >> Well, Chris, like to welcome you to uh Chat with Traders. >> Thank you very much. Appreciate being here and uh yeah, I'm excited to talk the markets and trading. >> Fantastic. So, where are you now and where where did you grow up?
[00:04:40] >> I am just north of Toronto. So, I'm in Canada about an hour and a half north up on the Great Lakes and um beautiful beautiful country. Lots of fresh water and mountains and uh hiking trails, fishing. >> Oh, good. Good. And what um initially attracted you to the markets? >> It's an interesting story because I grew up in the country and we never had TV. My parents had a satellite dish, but they never subscribed to it. So, I grew up playing in the woods, uh, hunting, fishing. I lived out in the country. We
[00:05:10] had ponds, and I played a lot of paintball and and other sports, but, um, never really had TV growing up. And so, when I graduated from, uh, high school, I went to Toronto to college, uh, for business administration, and I got hooked in my dorm room on TV. There was Speed Vision, and there was CNBC, and both of them were awesome. I used to build and make stuff growing up, so I love to love to invent stuff. But, uh, I got hooked on this and this was watching people on CNBC and day traders making 510 100K a day in some cases. I was
[00:05:43] like, this is this is what I want to do. Um, so that that that's kind of like a high level how I kind of somewhat got hooked on it. But how I actually really got hooked on it was um when I was 16 in high school. This was the initial hook that got me into it actually, which was my dad had got this package from Larry Williams, which is a it was a marketing booklet on how to trade futures, uh, you know, pork blets and all that stuff. I had no idea what futures were, but I read this and, uh, I grew up in an entrepreneur family, so I look at everything. I'm like, how can we make
[00:06:14] money? I used to have my own little landscaping job in the summer as a kid. And so I read this thing on futures like 10 times, if not more. And I told my dad, I said, "Dad, we have to get into trading futures. we can make like 50 grand a week. It's super easy. It's super fast. And of course, he kind of laughed and he's like, "Yeah." He's like, "No, we're not going to get into futures." He's like, "I'm going to continue to do what I do." But he's like, "Keep learning." And so, I kept learning about the markets. And then it wasn't long after that in high school, we had a finance
[00:06:44] class where we had a stock market challenge. And back then, all the tickers were printed off of the newspaper. And so, you go through the thousands of tickers and we'd randomly pick one as a classroom. We made like $180,000 in a semester with play money. And that opened my eyes. I'm like, "Okay, well, you don't need to do futures. We can just do stocks and we can make a ton of money." Like $100,000 account. We made a ton. So, that got my my teeth wet. And and then that led to when I graduated from high school from that finance uh one of the those classes. When I got to um college, I got
[00:07:15] stuck on CNBC and I just couldn't shut it off. It's like that was my TV show. that was like my game, my sport, my hobby, my passion. And so I've been doing this since I was 16 years old. And um yeah, I've just come full circle of trying almost every style of trading there is and kind of learned to where where I am today. So >> did you have any other friends uh that were doing this at the time or were you kind of the the lone wolf? And what what did your dad uh think of your enthusiasm and was he investing in the markets?
[00:07:47] Yeah, my dad's never invested in stocks. He's never been into the stock market at all. Still doesn't to this day. He uh he runs his own businesses. He's big into real estate. He had about 1,600 doors at one point. Um has a dental had dental clinics, had hearing clinics. Um him and my mom had had a bunch of good stuff going on. So, they never got into the stock market. It was totally new. He didn't know anything about it really, nor did I at the time. So, he thought it was interesting. I mean, he's always motivated. Both my parents have always been like, "Follow your heart. Do what you love." And I grew up learning to
[00:08:18] work hard and I'd always help my parents. My sister and I would help my parents run their businesses and stick flyers in the doors and go to events and work the booths with them and and all that stuff for their various businesses. So, uh, my dad just was like, you know, keep keep learning. He's always like, just keep learning. And so, I grew up. My dad always had cases of cassettes in his car back in the day. And of course, they're all the motivational speakers and all how to make money on real estate. Uh, so I was kind of like drowned in motivation. My parents used to drag my sister and I to Zig Ziggler
[00:08:48] in Toronto. I got up on stage once with Zig Ziggler when I was like 12 years old. So I grew up in I would say almost like a perfect bubble in terms of surrounded with entrepreneurs, starting businesses, helping them, seeing how much work and effort goes into it. And then also understanding you need mentors and you need motivation, you need all of that stuff and it just creates that perfect breeding ground for an entrepreneur. >> Uhhuh. Uhhuh. So when when did you uh first open up your uh very first trading account?
[00:09:19] >> Uh I was 18. So I was my first year of college. I turned 18. It was with Erade. And I had my I had to get my dad to cosign because I was underage. I'd saved up $2,000. And uh we we go to Florida. We have a place in Florida every year for Christmas and New Year's. We go for usually three to four weeks. And I bought Palm Pilot. This was like back in the tech bubble. And um >> I put all my money into it. I'm like, "This is it. The charts are like," and I came home on holidays, never even looking at it because I was just like, "I'm just going to buy it and go on
[00:09:49] holidays." Um, I came back and I had like $8,000. I was like, "This is amazing." I sold it. I cashed out. I was like, you know, that's almost the worst thing you could do as a trader is have a grand slam on your first trade because now it's like sets the wrong expectations. >> But anyways, I took I took that money and I I took courses in Toronto. I went to weekend seminars on trading. I met some people I'm still working with today um in trading and stuff that I learned at these um uh seminars on how to invest
[00:10:22] and how to read charts and all that stuff. So um it was really good. >> So uh after that uh first uh victory u what did you move on to then as far as trading? Did you jump into a bunch of other tech stocks and what what time frame what year was this exactly? Uh, what year was it? I think it was year I think it was 1999 or 2000. I can't remember what what year it was I jumped in and traded it. >> Um,
[00:10:52] >> so that was a random trade. I just remember seeing Palm Pilot on CNBC. They're like, "It has a pen on it. You can write on your phone." And I mean, it was earthshattering back in the day, right? So I I just bought it because their their ads were like I'm like, "This is going to change the world." So, I bought it because it was pure emotional. I just like the product and I wanted one. Uh, but really I had no no real course strategy at that point. So, I took that money and I I I put it into taking a course. I spent like $2,000 on a course
[00:11:23] uh from another company in Toronto. And uh it was based around a lot of like technical indicators, how to how to use specific indicators, moving averages, um how to identify like um finding the best stock to buy that's in an uptrend and then selling covered calls on it. And so I did that for quite a while while the stock market was still ripping higher. You could make back then with a covered call, I mean, geez, you could make eight to 15% every month. You lose you lose your shares, but you make it on your on your option trade, right? It was amazing. Mhm.
[00:11:54] >> Um, so I kind of got into that strategy because that's what I learned. That was the first thing I learned from like educated, you know, professionals. It ended up backfiring and the tech bubble unfolded. I blew up my account. I had no idea how to trade a falling market. Everything looked like it was a steal and you buy it and it keeps falling until you lose everything. And so I was buying and part of this course I bought, this program I took was to buy really solid companies on fundamentals. So you do a fundamental search first. Their software was really good. You find a company that's growing quarter after
[00:12:25] quarter, sort it out, figure out which one you like, and then you go to the technicals, you look at the indicators. Are they all is it in an uptrend more or less is the basic thesis. If so, then put it through, you know, the software, look at the covered calls, which one can provide you the best return each month with the covered call based on the current volatility. And then we put those trades on. So, it was it was deep down it was still fundamentalbased with a little bit of technical analysis. uh and and then we're trading options. So when the markets rolled over and everything went down uh you know a long
[00:12:57] only strategy doesn't really work. You end up selling covered calls. You still have your shares which have dropped dramatically in value 20 30 40%. Some of them fell even more than that. Um and so it doesn't really work. So I went from believing in buying strong companies to going I really don't care anymore what the company does or how strong the fundamentals are. I just want something that's going up in value. And so I follow price action. I follow momentum. And if something's going up, I'll take advantage of it. If something's going
[00:13:27] down, I'll find a way to take advantage of it as well. Or I just don't hold it. So I mean, all this was a big learning curve. I I lost I blew up my whole first account. Um, thank God I spent a lot of it on education. I bought a lot of de CDs and DVDs on trading courses. I took day trading courses. and um you name it. I just spent all the money on on education because I've always been taught like learn. The more you learn, the better you are, the more rounded you are. It will never hurt you knowing too much information. So I always, you know,
[00:13:58] put money into trade trading courses. And I did, believe it or not, the first course that I bought, I had met a group of people at this this weekend presentation in Toronto about how to trade. I became really good friends with these. They're much older than I was. I was only 18 and they were like in their 40s, 50s, but I would find all these amazing courses. I'm like, "Guys, this looks amazing. This goes with what we already know." And so I'd be like, "Hey, let's split on it." So we'd buy these like thousand courses, but there'd be four of us that split on it. And then we all take it together, right? Because
[00:14:28] we're all local. So it worked out really well. We got so much education and we'd support each other. We still chat to this day. Here we are like uh 25 years later. Um and so yeah, we just kind of help each other and uh spread out the educational curve and we'd all learn from each other's mistakes. >> Mhm. And so uh while the bare market uh is was unfolding over what a good year and a half, two years almost I believe uh during that time, what um did you get introduced to short selling uh during
[00:15:00] that time or had was it um too scary uh to get into like many traders uh like to avoid that? Um, what was your >> I learned about it, but I I never short sold at I was too young. It's it had endless risk. I don't think my account was even set up for it. I don't think I was allowed to at that point. >> Um, I never started short selling until the 2008 financial crisis that then then we made a lot of money on the way down. Um, but I was much older then. It was several years later. I, you know, decade under my belt almost of of trading and
[00:15:31] following the markets. Uh, made a huge difference. Uh but no, I I would I would more or less during the first crash, that was my first bare market, always thinking the market's about to rally, every dip, every further push down is like, "Oh, this has got to be the bottom, right? It just keeps going and going for years." Uh so I was buying and buying and buying and everything just kept falling. And I did I was doing some put options. So I'd buy a put option when the markets would fall. I had the occasional little grand slam or little hit here and there, but never enough to offset, you know, my natural long positions, hoping the market's going to
[00:16:02] find a bottom any day. >> How long were you taking these uh courses uh all the way through the bare market and and kind of like when did you um after you blew up your account for the first time, when did you get back in? >> Yeah. So, I I mean I believe it or I still take courses. I see somebody with a with a course that looks like they have a little golden nugget that I might not know and I'll I'll spend a couple thousand bucks. I'll take their course. If they have one little thing I don't know that or that improves my edge a
[00:16:33] little bit more with my current strategies. >> I mean, I'm all for it. I love I love learning stuff. So, it it's never end. It never will end. Um I think if you don't constantly evolve and improve, you're going to be left behind. So, you might as well stay on the ball and keep on running. Um, so what was your other question there? It was, >> yeah, so when you got back into the markets, you blew up your first account and then kind of um when did you go back get back in and what did you do differently this time that you weren't doing before? >> Yeah. So I still had the account. I had
[00:17:04] like, you know, 100 bucks or something in it. Uh, so I over through that time I had some other savings. I threw another $1,000 in and um started to trade. And that that was I mean pretty much I blew up my account and then probably like two months later I put in another $1,000 uh after I kind of scraped it together, saved up and stuff, put put that money in and kind of just worked away at it in inching away. But back at that point I was into trading micro cap stocks like penny stocks and in into miners and
[00:17:36] things like that and so it was very fast, very leveraged. Uh it worked out pretty well. Well, I had I had one grand slam trade that I uh ended up buying some warrants on and overnight it was like 120 20 something. I think it was about $127,000 I made overnight on one penny stock. >> Total fluke, not skill. >> What was your investment in it? >> Uh I can't remember what it was, but I bought it for like two cents or something and it went it it gapped up the next day like a buck 45.
[00:18:07] >> Oh my god. >> So it it was huge, right? Yeah. >> Yeah. It was it was a financial newsletter doing a typical pump and dump back in the day. Uh you know, so it locked out in my favor that I was like, "Holy crap, this guy totally just marketed to his newsletter." And uh I just remember waking up calling the broker. I'm like, "How do I sell? How do I sell all this?" Uh cuz I had warrants, right? I had a piece of paper. I'm like, "How do I convert this to money?" And I had called around to all kinds of different brokers. I'm like, can I open an account with you right now and sell short my shares to neutralize it cuz I'm
[00:18:38] I'm worried it's going to collapse. It's a pump and dump, right? That's my that was my thinking, which it ended up being. >> Um, >> and so I couldn't do it. I ended up having to wait like five days. I had to put the paper in, get Compu shares to like convert to shares. I ended up selling at a at a buck 35 or buck 36. uh a couple a couple different tanches, a couple blocks I sold out. But um yeah, it was that that was what really finally I had a big trading account and I was I was young, right? I was like, "Okay, I need to like really focus and I need to
[00:19:09] know what's going on, follow some rules." Uh so that was my kickart. And I think if you trade long enough, eventually you do have a couple good, you know, grand slam trades that just work out really well. Um but again, sometimes those are just fluke and they're just luck. You put in the time, usually luck will kind of play will will fall into place here and there. >> Yeah. Yeah. So So after that incredible experience, were you totally sold on these micro cap stocks and I mean you'd think you'd want to just jump in, go all in then, right? Because you found the
[00:19:41] lucky uh solution to making money. >> 100%. I would say I've lost more money in micro stocks than I ever made. So, as you know, they are super volatile. Most of them are just like >> a dead company with a piece of ground and they're marketing it or whatever it is, right? So, I would say over like the next 15 years, whenever I get into these little companies, they kind of implode or they don't go anywhere or they get bought out or they roll from a mining company to something else. Like, they're just um it it just it's not my thing. I
[00:20:15] definitely learned you can make a lot of money, but most it's almost like you're a venture capital in those things because you have to have 20 of them and one of them has to nail it because all the others are going to go broke or never really pan out. So, I'm not a huge fan of those, but I went through a phase where I thought that was it. Like I was loaded up. I had warrants on many companies. I own tons of penny stocks. Uh that was one of the phases when I I I eventually learned I'm like, you know what, I don't like this. It's not consistent. you can waste years holding on to these companies and then they just kind of disappear, get delisted and
[00:20:47] things like that. Uh so that was that was one of my one of my next phases. So the first one was fundamentals. You can own companies that are growing quarter after quarter yet their share price still gets cut in half and then a year later it's cut in half again. So you know fundamentals I don't believe in really in terms of trading. I'd rather follow something going up. The next lesson was super r volatile and risky cheap stocks are really dangerous. Yes, they can pan out, but most of the time they don't. Uh, and so I went from like,
[00:21:19] you know, trading big tech companies and realize and growing quarter after quarter and blowing up everything, then going to little companies that have no earnings and they're super cheap and then losing everything again. So, I kind of had to be like, okay, I'm I'm playing both ends of the spectrum. I got to figure out like there's got to be something in between this. Um, and so that's kind of when I got away from penny stocks and I moved into ETFs were just starting to really become popular in 2001, 2002. We're starting to see them uh pop up and I really like them. I
[00:21:50] like the index ETFs. Um, they they just move stable and they they kind of move like the ocean. They're not all over the place like these little penny stocks up 20%, you know, down 20% in one day or or something like that. But I wanted something more stable that I could be consistent. And I took a course that that started to teach us about um cycles and and waves like um uh noise in the market. So my mom was in the hearing aid business. So I learned a lot about
[00:22:21] hearing and wavelengths and sounds and all that stuff. Well, this guy brought in his his skills which was in noise and cycles into the stock market. And I'm like, he's like, the no, the stock market is just a vibration of the masses who are following it and watching it. And he explained it and taught it. I'm like, I totally get it. It's like it's a tuning. It's like a tuning fork. You take one tuning fork beside another one, you whack one, it'll start to move the other. Well, that's kind of the vibration of what investors are thinking and feeling and what they're doing gets
[00:22:52] transferred like into stocks. And so stocks move up and down with with more or less investor sentiment, the the energies that are moving around the money. And so that got me really, this was in 2001. This is where I I I started to implement cycles. I started to implement um things around position management and trends, longer term cycles going up while there's other shorter term cycles coming down. I started to decipher what are buying opportunities, smaller cycle dips within a larger upward cycle. And so that's a
[00:23:24] strategy that has evolved for the last more or less 24 25 years. It's what I use now specifically. And um it it's very very powerful. So I've learned to figure out the vibration of the masses of the market participants. There's many many ways to do it and and you need to calibrate, you know, a lot of different parts to to come out with it. but it tells us what's going on in the markets and how to navigate it. And so I'm I'm a huge fan of cycles. I'm a huge fan of Fibonacci theory, which Fibonacci um uh
[00:23:57] values are pretty much in everything in the universe and clouds and the stars and flowers, you name it. Like Fibonacci is a very powerful sequence. And there's the golden the golden sequence, which is the the 618 um retracement or extension. and I use it all the time for price targets and support levels. Uh so I started to become very much more technical driven. There's underlying forces at play that uh you we need to make sure we is in line with our analysis and our targets and and you
[00:24:27] know trends. Mhm. And so you seem to indicate there that uh you were looking at different kinds of cycles of what different asset classes. I mean the market are you looking at say just the S&P 500 or within sectors within the the market? Are you looking at commodities or anything else? Um >> yeah, share with us. >> Trading futures might sound complicated, but here's the thing. Everyone starts somewhere. Plus 500 futures could be your first step if you're ready to dip
[00:24:58] your toes in. With Plus 500's powerful platform, you can access a wide range of markets. S&P 500, NASDAQ, Bitcoin, natural gas, forex, metals, crypto, and more, all in one place. The platform is simple, intuitive, and mobile friendly, so you can trade from anywhere, anytime. Open your account with Plus 500 and start trading with as little as $100. Plus 500 offers an unlimited risk-free demo account packed with real charts and tools to help you practice and build confidence before jumping in with real
[00:25:29] money. With over 20 years of experience and over 30 million global customers, Plus 500 is your trusted gateway to the futures market. Click on the link in the description to open your free account. Trading in futures involves the risk of loss and is not suitable for everyone. Not all applicants will qualify. >> Yeah. So I I mean there's a lot of angles to look at. So I I one of the cycles is time cycles. Just you know what I like about the stock market and I learned this from the very first course I ever took when I was like 18 in
[00:26:00] Toronto was there the stock market the stock stock indices have wavelike patterns. There's reoccurring news that comes out weekly or bi-weekly or monthly or every quarter or every six months every year. There's people who get paychecks of all those same frequencies that naturally put money in every paycheck into the stock market. Um the economic data rolls out on specific times all the time. And so there's natural flows, es and flows that go in the stock market. So once I kind
[00:26:30] of learned, okay, the stock market has these natural tendencies, uh, then I start to apply what you just mentioned there, uh, Ian, which is I start to bring in other cycles, which are what are the stock market price actions doing? What are various assets doing? So for example, the gold is a very strong barometer of global fear or global, you know, lack of fear. Sometimes gold goes sideways for years and the stock market rips higher. other times like right you know where we are kind of now which is
[00:27:01] gold has been rocketing higher in in 2025 uh early 2025 and the stock market has been struggling and so gold is one of those cycles I like to look at is it outperforming the stock market if it is be aware there's probably something big looming not just a little correction but a global massive uh potential correction reset of some sort I like to look at utility stocks I like to look at um you the US dollar. Like to look at bonds, there's a whole bunch of different things. And as you know, Ian, the the
[00:27:32] financial markets are all connected in some way. If money is flowing out of one asset class, it's probably flowing into something else. And depending what it's coming out of and going into also tells us the mindset. So if people are moving out of gold, for example, and into small cap stocks, we're like, okay, well, they're they're not afraid anymore. So they're bringing it out of boring old, you know, pet rock gold and they're moving it into highly leveraged fastmoving stocks for for growth. Uh so depending where it's coming from, where it's going, it tells us what the market
[00:28:03] participants are thinking and feeling and even more importantly what they're doing with their money. And so I have about 11 different asset classes and sectors and things and commodities that I follow that lets me like it's almost like playing poker. I get to look at the market participants hands. I go, "Okay, I know what they're thinking and I know why they're doing it. I know where they're putting their money." And so, when you can see somebody's hand and see what they're doing and how they're betting, you can start to get some very good insight of how to counter that or take it like take advantage of it.
[00:28:34] >> So, that's that's what I do. And there's cycles in all of these. Everything has its own cycle. You have to figure out what it is and how it moves and its relationship to various assets. And then you can label it. Is it a risk on a riskoff asset? is you know things like that. >> Mhm. Uh is there you you mentioned uh money flowing out of one asset in into another. Is there a way to look at the charts and the data to see okay this is actually really money coming out of this asset rather than the buyers have kind
[00:29:06] of exhausted themselves and there's um not many new buyers but the sellers are also kind of light. In other words, uh um declining price declining prices on on uh kind of like in a vacuum where there's not much interest and um are you do you look at uh the the quality of the gain or the decline uh to determine how much assets are flowing in or out? I don't so much like I think you're kind
[00:29:36] of like referring to like you know if money's coming out of something and it's heavy heavy volume then you definitely know there's a lot of people dumping and distributing they want out of that asset but if it's really drifting down just a lack of buyers and there's some sellers wanting to move out believe it or not I don't really use volume for my analysis yes it can tell you if people are piling in or out of something but instead of using volume for that instead of looking at just one asset class saying somebody's dumping gold. A whole bunch of people are dumping gold. I'm like, okay, I don't I just know gold's going
[00:30:07] down and I look at all the other asset classes and I look at the majority of them. So, are the majority of them moving down? Telling us, say, for example, people are moving into riskon assets. So, all the riskoff assets are going down. If the majority of them are, that's my volume indicator. The majority of people tucked away in these safer assets uh are moving out of them because they want more. And so that to me is like is the volume indicator saying it doesn't matter where they're hiding their money where they felt safe, they're moving out of it because they want to make more. So that is my kind of
[00:30:38] indication of this is a strong wave because it's not just money coming out of gold, it's money coming out of four other asset classes and it's all piling into one specific asset or like risky stocks type of thing. You mentioned Fibonacci before and many traders have heard that term uh and the numbers u that pop out as a result of that. Could you go into more detail like why are these n how are these numbers created and why is it important? Um some people think oh this is just madeup
[00:31:09] nonsense. Um who is this what is this Fibonacci anyway? It seems like mumbo jumbo. um what could you describe what's its importance in our kind of daily life and how how was it found? >> Uh yeah, you know, it's a little beyond me. The best thing to do is for people to go and just watch a watch a quick YouTube video of the of Fibonacci, how it's in things. >> Uh but more or less, it's a sequence of of of of price of expansion and contraction that repeats in the
[00:31:40] universe. So for example, if you have something that moves uh you know um has a specific move, the next move that it should make is a s is is 61.8% of the first move. And so it creates this sequence and a lot of people if you Google Fibonacci theory or or Fibonacci you'll see like a shell sha shape kind of where it coils in and um it just happens to be like the universes and cloud structures and flower structures and waves and everything like that kind of flow through the sequence. I'm not
[00:32:11] really sure. It's it a lot of people see it as voodoo and you know I don't get into the planetary alignments like you know Venus is in retrograde sell short but Fibonacci has been proven it's in so many things and I've seen it and I use it all the time and it works exceptionally well. So it's worth looking in and just getting a little of insight and then to me the the two key numbers for Fibonacci is the 618 and and um the 100%. So, whatever the first move is, when the next move starts, it should equal the same one. Those are the two
[00:32:43] levels. I take first profit target, second profit target, and and rinse and repeat. Um, uh, but yeah, it's it's a there's something in the universe. I don't know if people can actually put a thumb on it, right? It's just something that happens. It's uh it's kind of out there, but it's there. >> Right. Right. Um, from my understanding, it was a just a natural occurring phenomenon that we observed in nature. uh mathematical relationships that we apply to the market and uh and for many it seems to work quite well. Uh could
[00:33:14] you go back to um just uh 2008 and how that unfolded for you and kind of what did you see back then that um made you either get out of your positions and or go short and um how you applied uh technical indicators during that time period. >> Yeah, sure. So kind of leading up to there's a couple interesting stories because stock if you understand the stock market and the economic cycles at play you can benefit a lot more than
[00:33:45] just trading stock. So for example in 2005 I had started my own line of healthcare products. I built a dealer network across Canada United States and um I built up this business. It was it was it was booming doing very well. My dad and I had started it together and I was also running a trading newsletter um back then for really I've been running a trading newsletter since 2001. At first it was just a community of all of us trying to learn what to do. Eventually I figured stuff out and I started charging a subscription fee. So I've been doing
[00:34:16] newsletters for a long time. But long story short is I built the healthcare business our our brand name and um I was also trading the stock market and business started was just starting to slow down for our healthcare business. I'm like, you know, you know, I told my dad, I said, I'm I'm not really loving this. I'm getting tired of it. It's like three years. We've had a really good run and we've had it on, as seen on TV, one of our products and all that stuff. I said, I make more in like a month than we like I, you know, trading and with my newsletter than we do with this
[00:34:47] business. And I'm like, I'm kind of ready to like just move on and sell it. And I said, we should, you know, it looks like the economy, all my analysis was saying the economy is coming to an end. like to look like there was a financial crash. This was in 2007. >> I said, "We should just move on." I'm like, I I don't like it. And um I want to focus on my newsletter. There's some crazy times coming. And And I started to pick up I I was following I still do. I follow economic data. I I love charts and trends of housing and interest rates and everything in in that space to get a
[00:35:18] feel of how the economy is doing. And uh it's funny because I my dad's like, "Sure, what whatever you want to do." He's like, "I'm I'm on board." And so we sold it and um and everything unfolded as expected. We kind of sold it near the peak of the business and at the peak of the economy and um and then the '08 crisis hit and everything collapsed. And of course uh that was when I got into learning to short sell. There was also some inverse ETFs back then. So instead of going short, you just buy an ETF that goes up as the market goes down. But
[00:35:51] more or less I was looking at a lot of different relationships. I was looking at the price of gold. I was looking at uh the transportation index which you can't really use anymore the transportation index because everything in the world now is shipped with Amazon and all these transportation companies shipping is picking up even if the economy slows down it's a g growing booming so typically the transportation space is a leading indicator if the transportation space slowed down you know there's a you know business sales are slowing down there's less sea containers going there's less shipping and all that stuff but now like the
[00:36:21] shipping space is still growing by leaps and bounds So, you can't use it. But we I use a lot of these things in price action to figure out, okay, this market is getting weak. Valuations are out of whack. Everybody's super bullish. Everyone's bought stocks. They're buying leveraged long ETFs. They're buying, you know, call options galore. They're buying real estate at nosebleleed pricing. Like, it was just a greedy, greedy time. Like, um, and I I could just see the end is coming. I'm like, it can't keep going like this. And the data is showing things are eroding. And so
[00:36:53] that was when I started paying attention to the stock stock market rolling over and it did it it cracked to the downside and had a 20% initial drop and then like a dead cat or a bare market rally and then it went off a cliff and continued to sell off about 57% the S&P 500 and um you know I was running a newsletter then we were trading inverse ETFs and every time the market would roll over and start to fall we'd buy another one of these funds. I wouldn't necessarily short I would short some of the my own stocks in my own account but through the newsletter we just bought inverse trade
[00:37:25] in traded funds. Um and so that's you know how I was lucky enough that I made enough money during the financial crisis that I retired when I was 27 from the financial markets and and and selling the health business that um I was able to just focus on managing my money which is where I'm at today. I just manage my money and I share what I do with others. But um trading a falling market as you know is a very different beast than a bull market phase. And people don't realize how quick and violent it is. Um
[00:37:57] pretty much you get into a trade and the market falls in your favor. You want it to fall. Um those trades are shortlived. They're like 5 10 days. The market drops very quickly and you got to get out because as you know bounces and rallies in a bare market are the strongest rip your face off rallies you'll ever experience. and you do not want to be short uh for any longer than you have to. So, it's like get in, hit your target or two, get out and just be happy and wait for a whole new setup to unfold over the next month or two. So, you have to be very patient and and selective in
[00:38:28] a in a bare market. Mhm. Uh so your experience in the 2001 crash and then in 2008 did that create a uh kind of a psychology of bearishness um being more pessimistic about the markets um than optimistic or were you just simply trading what you saw on the charts cuz you mentioned that you follow the news as well, economic news and stuff. So were you swayed by the either negative or positive news um that countered what
[00:38:59] you would see in the technical indicators? >> Yeah, you bring you bring up a good point. So in 2000 the 2000 tech bubble crisis um it was more so driven on fundamentals and opt ways to buy stocks and sell sell options on it which didn't work out. Uh over the next several years leading into the 2008 kind of market top I took a I learned a lot. I went from fundamentals to like just teach me tech. I want to learn technical analysis. I got into, you know, John Murphy, he's got his big thick book bible, the uh technical
[00:39:30] analysis of the financial markets. I read that a few times. And um so I had been working on technical analysis for a long time. I used stockcharts.com. I was one of the top people there, the top uh uh shared list for many many years sharing my my analysis. And um uh so I I use the technical analysis to figure out the big picture of what's going on. The the big thing the takeaway I learned from 2000 the 2000 tech bubble was you have to follow price. If something is going down get the heck out or have a
[00:40:02] strategy to profit from it falling. If it's going up you want to own it. And so coming around second round for the next bare market in 2008 was okay if this market is going off a cliff um I definitely do not want to hold anything. I want to profit from falling pricing or move to a different asset that that goes up while the stock market falls. And so I I did have a very bearish bias but I I I trade strictly the charts. That is where I really deviate. So, I mean, I
[00:40:32] could be very bearish or bullish on something, but I'll actually be in the opposite trade. I'll be like, you know, um I could be still bullish on the stock market, but actually, you have an inverse ETF, uh because I follow price. So, I might think a bottom is coming and I'm like, guys, I think a major bottom is coming, but I I'll still be short because the price is going down. So, people need to be able to differentiate what you think and feel is happening versus what the charts are doing and what I'm actually doing. So, you know, a lot of times I'll be like, I'm really bearish on the market, but we're
[00:41:03] actually still long because it's still going up. Uh, and so that's where people need to deviate. And so, I don't let news get in in between what I do. I have a yes, the news might build my bearish story, for example, and the fundamental data that could be weakening on stocks, sales are slowing, the economic data could show unemployment starting to rise and delinquencies on mortgages starting to pick up and credit cards. So, it builds my bearish bias, but I still have to wait for price to roll over and for all the other asset classes and sectors
[00:41:34] to also confirm that, hey, money's moving away from risk on. They're moving to defensive pockets of the of the financial space. And that's telling me that okay, we need to be very aware because smart money is getting out of the out of stocks and moving into more defensive plays. You know, utilities are a typical one. We usually see utilities rally very strong and outperform the stock market for a few days or potentially a couple weeks before the stock market has a big leg down. And that's simply because people are like if if the market's going to roll over, they want to move into a comp companies that
[00:42:06] are going to still be needed. You need running water. You need electricity. Um it's the same with consumer staple products. XLP is a a consumer staple ETF. It usually does well or holds up or goes higher uh when the markets have a bit of a pullback. Um, so it's just keeping a track of what all those things are doing. But 100% don't follow the news. Don't follow your emotions. Follow price. That is the biggest takeaway that will different you from winner or loser over the long run. >> Uhhuh. Um, so are you u day trading
[00:42:38] these uh u equities or like how long are you holding on to them and how how do you know when to get when to get in and when to get out? Yeah. So, I I used to day trade. I mean, I used to run a full, you know, all day futures day trading chat room. That's all I did for for many years. I day traded the S&P 500. I tra day traded the Dow Jones. >> Um, I moved away from that. I don't do any day trading anymore. If there's a perfect setup, I'll throw a little futures trade on. You know, opening gaps I do occasionally or the end of day,
[00:43:09] like a little short squeeze if I see the perfect setup. But really, most of the trades I do now, they're kind of like a position trade. So trades might last a couple weeks all the way up to like five or six months. And the way I look at the stock market now because I really just trade the indices and the bond market and currencies, those major core asset classes, I look for for the market to move in in waves. So the way that I look at the stock market is in all assets is like like the ocean tide. If the tide
[00:43:40] goes is going up, what happens to all the boats? They all go up. So the stock market is is the same. If we're in a bullish environment, the tide is going up. You can throw a dart. Most stocks are going to go up. If the tide's going down, you don't want to hold stocks. And this is where people get things wrong. They're like, I own a tech ETF. I've got, you know, an AI ETF. I've got Microsoft. I got this stock. I got that stock. They're like, I'm diversified. I'm like, just so you know, FYI, those are stocks. They're all the same trade. When we go into a bare market, they're
[00:44:10] all going down. And the the smaller the the individual asset, so the stock index might fall 50%. Well, a sector might fall like 70%. An individual stock might fall 80 to 95% in a bare market. And so people think they have all these like diversification with sectors and stocks. I'm like, you have no idea what's going to happen to your portfolio if we go off a cliff. You're holding the most volatile pieces thinking they're your safe haven and your diversification. And people don't get that. Um it's, you
[00:44:42] know, the buy and hold strategy is a ticking time bomb for retirees right now. Um guaranteed you'll never retire early with the with the buy and hold. You need 20, 30, 40 years to make real money. Diversification is >> is very dangerous. >> So So you you you don't buy into the uh idea that uh you know, just buy and hold the S&P 500 because it always goes up in the long run, right? You know, that's uh that's the mantra. >> Yeah. Well, I mean that Yeah. I mean, you never know. Probably it will continue to do that. But for example, if
[00:45:14] you're close to retired retirement right now or in retirement, if we go into something where the markets go down 30, 40, 50%. And they take five or eight or 10 years to come back. Uh that's not a very fun ride for somebody who's retired, depending on growth, depending on income, watching their wealth vaporize, and having like five or six years with no return. It's it is very dangerous. And I I don't believe that's a very good strategy. The whole buy and hold with diversification is is is a is another problem because what
[00:45:45] happens is half your portfolio might be in something going up like stocks and the other half could be in bonds which aren't going up, they're going down or vice versa. The the gains you make in one are neutralized by the losses of the other. So my whole mentality is like let's find the asset class that's the strongest and that's moving up. Let's move our money into it. when it stalls out, let's move our money out and look to where another asset class is moving up. So, we move into stocks as the stock indices like as a whole or we move into bonds or we move into a currency or we
[00:46:16] just sit on the sidelines in cash and earn our four and a half% with no downside risk until something has has a setup. And so, that's what I focus on is we're always holding something going up. And even cash cash is a position and it does go up. you make your your daily interest and your your monthly dividend payments depending on the type of cash position you're in, but you're growing and you're avoiding volatility. So, uh you know, I'm just not a fan of of diversification. I'm not a fan of the buy and hold. It's just a it's a real
[00:46:47] gamble. The closer you are to retire your retirement, the more risk you have, the more damage it's also going to do. Uh so it's that's what I'm trying to protect people from because if we go into a financial reset, which I believe we're headed towards, uh there's no better time to hurt the majority of investors right now. Most people are 50 plus who are invested in the markets, uh and they're going to feel the pain at the worst possible time in their life to lose their money. >> Mhm. Um so you day traded for, um quite a few years. What incentivized you to
[00:47:18] transition to more of a position uh type trading, holding positions for weeks or months as opposed to day trading? >> Yeah, good question. So, running a newsletter, you active traders, as you know, probably the more you trade, the more likely you are to lose money. Trading is not easy. >> Uh unfortunately, active traders tend to have in general, they're very emotional. They tend to lose and struggle. They can't follow strategies because the news
[00:47:48] scares them out and they've skipped trades or don't want to get out of a loser because they don't want to be proven wrong. They won't get out of a winner because it's working. It's like it's I you you do you work with enough of these people for enough years and you have a lot of nasty emails. People always seem to take it out on whoever reaches out to them at the wrong time of the day. Uh, so I kind of just like I decided I I built up enough wealth that I'm like, you know what? I just want to I have a whole lot of other things I want to do. I I invent things. I've got multiple other businesses going. I just
[00:48:19] want to manage my large amount of capital in the easiest way possible where I have the fewest trades per year. I can make the highest possible return with the lowest risk. That has been this this strategy I've been evolving and proving since 2001. And really I only have 5 to 12 trades a year and all the signals are done at the end of day and we figure out when if there's a signal we enter the next day at the open. It allows us to all just live our life, do the things we want and
[00:48:50] pull money out of the market without all the emotions and without the news and the stress. We could care less with what the president does and tariffs and the Fed does and all that stuff. It doesn't matter because we just follow the price action. Our strategy says, "Hey, things are getting weak. move out of this asset. Uh things are getting strong. Move into this asset. Here's here are the targets. Here's how we manage portfolio allocation. And so I really just went into like hitting a level where I'm like I don't want to put up with all this kind of BS of dealing with everybody holding hands and it's super
[00:49:20] fastpaced and I wanted to just do things that I like and still manage my money. in one ETF or two ETFs, I can manage my entire portfolio because you just put it all into SPY or QQQ or TLT or whatever it is. And I like those big big moving beasts because they're liquid. They are consistently moving. We have enough gauges that we can track when a trend is starting and finishing relatively accur accurately. And um I wanted more free time. I've got two kids. say two kids
[00:49:52] come into the picture and uh we've got two dogs and a life changes a lot once you have kids and you realize um there's more to life than just glued to a screen and working you know trying to make day trades. I don't like hunting for trades. I like to sit back and watch trades roll in like waves. So you know as I talked about the tide before Ian I see myself because I'm a surfer and kiteboarder and I I love the water. I see myself as like a surfer like floating in Florida just out past the the brakes of the waves. And what are those surfers doing when
[00:50:23] they're just sitting there floating? They're waiting for a set of waves to roll in and which come in, you know, every 5 minutes or so when you're sitting out in the ocean. Well, that's what I do with the stock market. There's 5 to 12 waves that roll through these assets that we follow every year. We see them coming in advance so there's never a surprise. uh we hop on the wave that fits our criteria, fits our asset kind of uh hierarchy that we have, our strategy, and we hop on and we ride that wave. We can tell how strong it is. And the nice thing about hopping on a strong wave is you can also tell when it's
[00:50:55] starting to get weaker. So, you can start trimming off positions, locking in gains, moving our stops up. You're mentally preparing yourself going, "This is getting weak. We're going to it's going to end soon. we're probably going to have our trailing stop or just a trend exit signal because it stalls out. Um, and so that's where I'm at. So now, you know, my days are I check the markets in the morning and I check them in the evening and um, you know, it's 5 to 12 trades a year isn't very much. Very manageable. You can do a lot of other stuff. >> Yeah. So could you um share a little bit
[00:51:26] um with us uh about your process, how you get into trades and what you how you get out of them and do these indicators or signals or process help to give you the patience that maybe we can all use to stay with that position and not jump out prematurely. Yeah, I it's definitely I I my strategy is in a sweet spot that is very uncomfortable for most people. So, for example, you've got active traders who
[00:51:57] love the action. They think they need to trade all the time. They think the more you trade, the more you make. Uh they like really fastmoving stuff. That is actually a pretty dangerous way to attack the markets. Um, and then you've got the buy and hold investors with advisors or they just, you know, buy stuff and hold forever and they're diversify and they hold dividend stocks and things like that. That is really dangerous, too, because you're really just at the mercy of the markets. I mean, after the 2000 tech bubble, it took 16 years for the NASDAQ to come back to break even. That is a bloody
[00:52:29] long time to make no money, lose your money twice, but it fell 50 over 50% both times. I think one was 82% and the second one was 50 something%. uh it is a very painful ride. Uh and you get a very average low return with with the buy and hold. So what I do is kind of stuck right in the middle. It's it's just a little there's a little activity 5 to 12 portfolio allocation changes a year. So it's almost doing nothing, but it's just enough to to catch these waves that roll through. But we're not
[00:52:59] actively trading. We're not in and out every month. We're not doing a bunch of stuff. Um and so what happens is we get into u potentially a trade. It might last a few weeks. It could last um up to like seven months. And then we go to cash. We could be in cash for a month or two waiting for another trade. And so the trades are pretty boring. We move into like an index ETF like SPY and QQQ. We ride that. Our whole account goes up with the market when it moves in our favor. We close it out once the trend or targets have been hit. And then we sit in cash collecting interest waiting for
[00:53:30] the next trade setup. And it could be months. So the active trader thinks it's like pulling teeth. They're like, "We're never going to make money. There's not enough trades." And and the passive investor who's never done anything before, they're like, "Whoa, whoa, this is way too active." So, I'm definitely in no man's land. I have to twist arms of investors to get it and be like, "This actually isn't that active." And then the active traders, I'm like, "Guys, if you just slow down with your trading and focus and have a proven strategy, you can actually pull money out consistently every year." So, um,
[00:54:01] the strategy that I do, I I would say, is position trading. and um it's focused 100% on technical analysis, sentiment and price like position management. >> So price action is number one the most important. We need to make sure the trend is in the direction we want and we have to make sure it's a strong enough trend and we use a lot of different tools and indicators and many cycles need to be aligned for that. If that meets our criteria then we look at sentiment. We look at about 11 or so
[00:54:32] different asset classes, different ratios and what money's doing between currencies and and and sectors and commodities and things like that. Uh if enough of those meet our criteria, then we're like, okay, so the trend is up, we have the proper mindset, people are moving their money into this direction to further support it. Money is coming out of many other places to feed into this one asset class that we like. And then on top of it, once we get into that trade, then we actually manage our position. We're not just like buy and
[00:55:02] hold. Uh we actually like focus on we do have a target and we we sell some of our position when it's working out. And then we can put that money over into a cash interest earning position. So it's still trickling and growing a little bit but without any downside risk. And we let that trade and that trend mature. And sometimes those trades and will will last, you know, six, seven months. And we scale out as it continues to go higher. we move our stop up and eventually the trend comes to an end and then we take a look at what's next. If stocks aren't favorable now, where do we
[00:55:33] go? Um, usually bonds have worked very well in the past, not since the COVID crash because we're in a rising interest rate environment. So, bonds haven't been um anything we're really trading. There will be a time they come back into play, but it's been more so the US dollar uh index uh or it's just been a cash position. So, it's been kind of been running without one of our core assets working in our favor, which is the bond market. But that will eventually, I think, come around. Um, but that's kind of how we go about doing it. You need all three of those pillars. You need
[00:56:03] price, you need sentiment, you need position management in order to have an edge and have something that is repeatable with proper setups in the markets. >> Uh, go into a little bit about position management. I mean, if you see uh something that looks really good um and you're dealing with ETFs, wouldn't you want to go all in? I mean, what what um describe what position management's about? >> Yeah. So, position management is um it's
[00:56:34] about managing how much you can lose. I I always So, I mean, I I blew up three trading accounts starting. So, the first one I blew up was through the tech bubble. Um, the other two were through futures trading. One of the last futures trading account I opened, I blew up the same day I got it funded. Uh, because I was still in revenge trading mode and I was just I'm like the market has to turn around. I was day trading and I just I just totally blew it up and I hit bottom after that one and I didn't trade for months. But that was when I learned I
[00:57:05] hit the wall saying, "Okay, I need position and risk management." And it was actually right around the same time my family had also gone bankrupt. So I had I I've literally hit bottom and I saw our whole family hit bottom and things hit me in a big way. And so when it and when it all came together at the same time, that was when money risk management is critical. And so the next time I went into the markets, it was always about how do I quickly reduce exposure as quick as I can, lock in some gains, u move the stop up, and then if
[00:57:36] it wants to keep on going, if that trend is strong, it'll keep running and I'll be able to lock in more gains. Uh so now when it comes to position management, the more something is volatile, like if it can move faster, we'll put a smaller position size into it. So for example, like in um you know, in 2025, the markets are pretty volatile. Same within 2024, all kinds of random news events, big price swings up and down. uh when the markets have faster and bigger moves and what we'll do is instead of going a 100% in as you
[00:58:07] mentioned Ian into the stock market even though we have a buy signal for it we'll be like no we're actually going to can keep you know um say 40% cash just on the sidelines generating our 4% interest and we'll put in 60% instead of putting it all in because the markets are moving way faster and we don't want to step into something really volatile with a bunch of landmines and get hit. So when things carry more risk and there's a more uncertainty in price whipsaws, you have to step back and scale your position size down to counter that. So
[00:58:38] if the markets are, you know, 30% more volatile than normal, we probably want to cut back our portfolio allocation to that probably 30%. So uh you know, if it makes that move, it's not going to hurt us so bad. During 2008, for example, volatility was through the roof. Price was super um fast moving. we would actually cut our position size in half. So only half our portfolio would go into these trades, but we'd have to we'd double our profit targets and we'd double our stop losses because you need that wiggle room. You got to let that
[00:59:09] market breathe and wiggle, right? >> So, you know, understanding that is really critical. And what I do with the with our strategy is as the markets become more volatile, we move to slower and slower asset classes. So, for example, the stock market is typically the most volatile. Bonds are usually less volatile. Currencies are are half that of bonds if not less. And then cash position really isn't any volatility. So what happens is when the markets get crazy, we start moving down our asset hierarchy to slower assets looking for
[00:59:40] one that meets our criteria. And sometimes we just sit in cash, but which is the opposite of what everyone else does. Typically when the markets go off a cliff and volatility takes off, you've probably seen this. Everybody starts trading options. They're all trying to swing for the fences. They're like, "I got a 2x and 3x inverse ETF or like they're trading. They they jack up their leverage when when volatility is already increased." You don't need to do that. It's already built into the the markets. But people like blow their heads off with leverage um at the at the worst
[01:00:11] possible time. Yes, if you hit one of those, you make a lot of money fast, but that's not the reality of the markets. I see the markets as always trying to take your money, super dangerous. only stick your toe in the water when you have an ideal setup and risk is controlled and you've got strategy in place and if it goes and backfires against you, it's not going to like be a huge hit on your account. Everything needs to be in a controlled manner. I don't I don't want to risk my lifestyle. I don't want to risk my trading account. I'm all for gains. I'm all for big gains, but I'm
[01:00:42] also focusing on if you don't take big losses, you don't need big gains to have very big success. you just need consistent growth year after year if you don't have the big losses. So that's what I focus on is how do we pull out 10 15% every year on average and not have any of these big losses that that devastate us and um becomes very consistent and comfortable and um eventually you get addicted to it uh because you're like ah it's so nice not to stress about what's going on in these markets. Everyone's stressed right now in the markets. And you know, my team
[01:01:13] and I were just and our and our people who use our strategy, they're like, "This is like so nice to just watch these markets and not really have to worry about what's going on because we have a game plan for either direction that it goes." And uh we're expecting wildness. >> Uh-huh. So uh with the market currently um after this uh tariff post tariff bounce that we've seen in the market and the VIX uh being quite low are you um pretty fully uh invested in stocks because the volatility is so low and now
[01:01:44] is a good time to get in or kind of what are you looking at right now? >> Yeah, so we were fortunate our strategy told us to get out uh early this year before the market rolled over. Uh we sat on the sidelines because nothing met our criteria. Uh well the whole market fell about 20%. I fell about 18% from where we got out. Uh and now we're back long you know in the market 100 well not 100% in the market. Vol volatility is high. We actually have a lot of our indicators warning us of a financial reset of a of a bare market starting. So we're not
[01:02:16] 100%. We're 60% in equities. Um, and 40% is just in a cash position just earning interest right now because there's lots of volatility. When the market falls 20% and rebounds 20% very quickly, I mean, that's a fast-paced market. We don't want to risk too much. So, we we scale back. But, we are long both the S&P 500, the NASDAQ. Um, because the trend is kicked back up and um I'm I'm expecting it to stall out and roll over. Uh, but really, we have to let that the market
[01:02:46] do that first. And people are really starting to get bullish in the current environment because we're we're up near the highs again. And typically you just got to get everybody really bullish and that's usually right when the market rolls over. And we're seeing that all the aggressive sectors are moving up. Money's piling into the ARC ETFs and uranium stocks and Bitcoin and all that stuff. Typically when everybody piles into the really aggressive stocks and sectors is usually when the market starts to roll over. And we're starting to see that. But I think there's still some more upside left in this market before um we might start that bare
[01:03:17] market phase which the economic data in our long-term cycles are pointing to like you know a pretty dreary looking second half of 2025 and and 2026. >> Uh so to wrap things up uh what do you struggle with most as a trader? Um, I would probably say I mean the when it comes to trading my biggest struggle is dealing with other traders because I deal with thousands. I
[01:03:48] help thousands of traders. So >> I mean the markets I I can walk through. I don't they don't stress me out at all. But I find it difficult to hold the hands of several thousand investors because there's always new ones rolling in. They don't fully get what we're doing yet. They need time to be like, "Oh, I see the value. I see why you do it this way. Like usually it takes with my strategy about 9 months for people to go through a market experience like the one we just had and be like, "Holy crap, I see exactly why what what you do and why you do it. We get out of before the
[01:04:19] markets crash because your strategy shows when things are starting to turn down. We can make money while the market falls and then we can get back long and catch this rally up even though, you know, everybody says, you know, a bare market's coming." And um so my biggest problem is just trying to um deal with the emails and the comments of you know people naturally get pretty ugly during volatile selloffs or or rallies that they missed. More people get angry actually when they miss a rally than they'd rather take a loss than miss a rally.
[01:04:50] >> So it's just it's just handholding investors, right? And um it it sometimes the comments get under my skin and and and uh it's tough to like try and stay positive and keep educating when people are poking at you and trying to tear you down, right? But other than that, >> um knock on wood, I don't really struggle with anything other than just, you know, trying to help people and trying to just stay with a really good group of uh traders and educate them to get what I get. Once they see the light, they're like, "Oh, this is amazing."
[01:05:22] >> Yeah. Yeah. Well, uh, Chris, I'd like to thank you for coming on, uh, chat with traders. >> Oh, thanks for having me. It's a pleasure to talk markets and strategies and, uh, hopefully people get some insight from this. >> Yeah. And how can our listeners, um, get in touch with you? >> Yeah. The best way is to go to the techchnicaltraders.com or just search me on YouTube, the technical traders, and uh, they can follow along and see what I do on the charts. I share my screens every day in the morning of what's going to happen through the day. and um uh there they
[01:05:53] can copy the trades that I do if they want to follow along. >> Fantastic. Great. Thanks for coming on the show. >> Thanks, Ian. Pleasure. >> You've reached the end of this episode of Chat with Traders, but rest assured, there are more episodes loaded with real market insight and zero hype on the way soon. So, to stay updated with each great new release, subscribe to the podcast and iTunes. and we'd love it if you'd leave a rating and review. We'll catch you next time on Chat with
[01:06:24] Traders. [Music] [Music]
