# 307 · Mario Dimitroff - The Gamer’s Edge: High-Win Scalping in Pre-Market Madness
# source: YouTube auto-captions (en-orig) https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=KGPoAR8Epg0

[00:00:00] Ditch those rookie trading apps. Get Tasty Trade, the platform for serious traders. Chart with 300 plus indicators. Know your profit odds and move fast. Trade stocks, options, futures, and more all in one account. See why serious traders choose Tasty Trade. Visit tastyrade.com. Tasty Trade Inc. is a registered broker dealer and FINRA NFA and SIPC member. Uh, I am a supreme fan of the real-time strategy genre. I've played a lot of
[00:00:31] Starcraft, Starcraft 2, Warcraft 3, there's my my most passionate games. I've also played a lot of Counter Strike when I was little as well, which is a first-person shooter. And I would say I've been mostly influenced by strategy games and by shooter games. Yeah. And I would say that in both types of games, I think the strategy element is the most important. In most recent real-time strategy games, there is a lot of micromanagement. There is a lot of you have to be very fast. your mind is constantly thinking about something and when I trade like in in the pre-market I try to be something like that I try to
[00:01:02] be in the zone I just try to just click on every stock and uh basically check why the stock is up see if there is some sort of news about that stock see if there was a volume premarket check if there is any short float like go through all of these checklists all of these stuffs that I do for example every day it's like very similar to a game and you do that in the strategy game as well you have to you have to know how much your food supply is you have to know what what your gold income is you have to know does your gold income support building this much unit like you have to think about these things constantly I'd
[00:01:33] say I'd really compare the stock market to a strategy game markets speculation and risk this is the chat with traders podcast yeah this is Chat with traders and we're in episode 307 this is Tessa your co-host And for you new listeners on the show, I want to welcome you to the podcast. And if you've been listening for a while, thank you so much for your continued
[00:02:03] support. You just keep us going. As you heard a little bit in a teaser in the beginning, today my co-host Ian Cox speaks with Mario Dimmitri, a competitive video gamer and of course a trader first and foremost, but the intense level of video gaming played a major part in shaping who he is as a scalper trader today. He's Bulgarian and trades from Bulgaria. So you'll get to hear more about his experience on the trading floor in Bulgaria and how he transitioned into the independent
[00:02:36] protrader of the US pre-market session and we get to dive more into his trading techniques and philosophy. By the way, he's never taken a break from trading that I just find just so amazing. You know, every once in a while we get the privilege of talking to a 100% trading for a living type of trader. I mean, literally, it's all they do. Nothing else. No other businesses. That's it. Trading seems to be their life and dedication. That's pretty hardcore.
[00:03:08] That's Mario. Ladies and gentlemen, we're so pleased to present Mario Ditrov all the way from Bulgaria. Yeah, sounds like you have a an accent. Where are you from, Mario? >> Uh, I'm from Bulgaria. >> Okay. Well, you're the first Bulgarian I've ever talked to. And u so I'd like to welcome you to Chat with Traders. >> Uh, thank you. It's a pleasure to be here. It's a huge honor for me to join this spotlight along alongside like all
[00:03:39] of my trading idols like Christian Kulamagi, Lance Brightstein, The Short Bear. Uh, I've literally learned through them through your podcast. So for me it's a huge honor, trust me. >> Oh, great. Fantastic. Well, welcome aboard. So you're in Bulgaria. Tell tell me is it is Bulgarian culture uh do they like to um speculate in markets and and risky assets and that kind of thing? Is that a is it a risk-taking culture? >> Uh to be honest, I I I wouldn't say it's
[00:04:11] such a risk-taking culture. I think obviously that the trading community has been so developed in Bulgaria. Obviously there has been some people that have took great risks to make this happen. Uh there have been traders that have started working in the in the states like in New York in trading floors and obviously they came back to Bulgaria to uh try to develop some sort of trading strategies that might work for people here. And uh I'm I can say that hundreds hundreds of people are doing this in maybe three or four big trading floors
[00:04:42] in Bulgaria. Uh obviously I I'm not the best representative of this community first of all because like there are uh people that have like decades of experience more than me. Uh so I feel a bit of an imposter in that case. But uh I I I have a bit of a public presence. I mean that I have a YouTube channel. I like to talk about these topics concerning the stock market trading like uh maybe some stocks that might uh have big movements during the week and uh basically that's about it. I mean
[00:05:14] Bulgarians we're Eastern Europe obviously it's a excommunist country. It's been tough growing up after the capitalism came in but uh for some people it works. It's it's a very tough job but uh it pays well for sure. I I'd say that uh the costs are much much uh smaller than for example in the states. That's one thing. Also it's important to note that the taxes are lower which is also very important when you're trading you want to have the most edge as you can and if taxes are eating at your edge it's much more difficult.
[00:05:45] >> Fantastic. Well let's go back in time back when you were uh much younger. And how did you first hear about the financial markets? >> I I studied in university in a financial program economics management and finance. So, uh, that's where I heard about it. But, uh, honestly, that is not, uh, where I got my passion at all. I would say it's through gaming. That's, uh, one of my big thesises on trading is that, uh, if you're a competitive gamer or if you're somebody that has been competing at a very high level.
[00:06:16] Obviously, you have what it takes to to get there. Uh, there is a lot a lot of similar characteristics. I would start in the very beginning, as you're saying, let's start chronologically. uh when I was like maybe six or seven years old, my father taught me to play chess. Uh I think chess is an excellent game that basically uh provides a pattern recognition, game theory. Uh it strengthens your memory. It develops your critical thinking. Also very important to say it also um makes you
[00:06:47] think under pressure when you're playing chess with a timer. You have to make a fast and quick decision. And uh in the stock market if you're trading with huge volumes like intraday uh sometimes you really have like a few seconds to make a decision. So all of these things I just listed I'd say uh are excellent complimentary uh traits for somebody that wants to be a trader. So as I said I started out in the university with finance but uh after finishing up I tried a career path. It didn't work out out so well. And in 2016 I uh found
[00:07:17] about the first trading floor in Bulgaria. I actually found about it through Starcraft 2 tournament. Uh it was host in Sophie Bulgaria. Uh it was sponsored by the trading floor. But by the way that at that time I had no idea where the trading floor is but uh they succeeded in that that I found out about them. So I applied one month later and uh I started trading there. It's h very important to say that most Bulgarian traders they trade fixed income securities. That's mostly preferred stocks, closed end funds, some municipal bonds, um, master limited partnerships
[00:07:48] and others. Uh, which are pretty pretty specific, very specific part of the market. They're they're not so much traded. I mean, they're more illquid than equity in the equity market for example. And uh, I think that that kind of trading wasn't for me. And my first year of trading, I was a complete failure so to say. I mean u why is that? Why why were you a failure? Well uh as you might know like most traders it takes quite some time to become profitable for one to become profitable.
[00:08:18] I mean very very few people have become profitable in their first year. I'd say on average takes like one or two years at least for you to form some profitable habits and uh by saying that I'm meaning that uh literally for you have to trade for one year and lose to learn all that things. So that's what I mentioned that I was a failure but uh I somehow I recognized that maybe that's not for me. I was still a bit young and stupid. I was like 25 at the time. So I first of all I still had some more time to fail with some more stuff if I would wanted to. So I still had that freedom. I
[00:08:51] wanted to trade cryptos because 2017 there was the cryptomania uh the first cryptomania I would say. Uh and uh as I was losing money uh trading on the trading floor I was uh gaining a little bit money by trading crypto. So that was a little something to get by. So, uh, basically I left the trading floor and I started trading crypto. But, uh, it was a very tough market 2018. It was a very tough market. I basically lost all of my gains and I had to even, uh, uh, get break even. I was already down on my
[00:09:21] investment. So, uh, it was very tough. Uh, that's why I started uh, I entered the job market once again. I I worked in a few crypto startups for two three years. But, uh, that's really not important. I'd say the most important part is like when I got back to trading uh I got back to trading at 2020 uh right around covid I think uh I was extremely lucky uh I I want to say that I was extremely lucky to get back at such a time because I literally after the whole market was uh crashed like in
[00:09:51] March and April 2020 uh I literally started swing trading afterwards from a retail account as a hobby I deposited like $1,500 I mean something like that it was like a few salaries saved up. Nothing too special. Uh but I still had the passion. I I look at the market every day. I wanted to try swing trading. So I did. Uh and uh I want to say I was extremely lucky. As you might know, most professional traders uh 2020 they uh uh it was their best year. So yeah, that's uh uh basically how I got
[00:10:24] back again to trading. Uh I got hyped up with the meme stocks, Mania, GameStop. >> Mhm. Um so when you were working with your co-workers there in uh so you traded uh uh these kind of special preferred stocks and other illlquid securities with them, right? So did did uh did this company teach you much about trading? >> Yes, definitely they teach you but they only teach you about their uh strategies. Basically that's uh there
[00:10:57] are many pros and cons of working in a trading floor. Uh, I'd say it's both pro and a con. Uh, because they teach you a strategy that might really not be suitable for you, might really not understand it, but they're like literally traders that have like tens of years of experience and they know that the strategy is profitable. And then if you trust the strategy, if you uh follow all of their advices and stuff, they know that you going you're going to become a a winning trader. So yeah, the they definitely they have to they have
[00:11:29] to teach you because uh there is like a mentorship program so to speak. I mean you get a mentor from the beginning and uh when you when he develops you into a trader like he can get some a little bit of a percentage of your profits in the in the future but that's like that's similar in most of the prop trading floors now. So uh people are incentivized to teach other people and yeah there are also cons to this. I mean uh obviously there these strategies are very uh unique and uh they're profitable but uh anything else if you want to trade it basically if if you're a junior
[00:11:59] they won't let you I mean they won't let me trade anything else because uh uh you need to have a a bankroll so you have something to risk like when you don't have a bankroll it's uh you're very limited in your choices and uh your size goes up as you are winning a little bit a little bit but yeah it's a a very unique experience I would recommend it to if you're a young person that has like a a free time and you have a passions about the markets or if you're good at gaming, I would recommend it to you to try it. I mean, it's a very
[00:12:30] unique experience to try to trade at the trading floor. >> And why did they focus in on just these illlquid uh type of securities that most investors in the west are not as familiar with? And why didn't they just go into the regular stock market and trade uh the stocks that are liquid and fast moving? to to be honest, these fixed income securities, they are much easier to trade uh because they're like much less risky if you know what you're doing. Well, if you trade the equity market many times, like if you if you
[00:13:01] average like a madman, if you if you really don't know what you're doing, you can like really quickly like really quickly lose a lot of money while the fixed income securities if there is not like a a credit event or if there is nothing like that it's a u you uh company specific to the preferred stock to the company for example, usually it's going to mean revert like you it has a par value prefer so they have par value. um they also give out dividends. So they're very specific in in that case. Actually there was a saying that um if you let like monkeys trade on the PC and
[00:13:33] they uh like trade the spread the preferred stocks they would be profitable because it's really not that difficult. You just have to like place on the bid, place on the ask, etc. It's like a lot of manual labor so to speak of just placing orders. But uh if it works it works, you know. I really respect every person that makes his living trading on the stock market. No matter if he's trading equities, no matter if he's trading fixed income securities, I would say there are among some of the best fixed income traders in the world are situated in Bulgaria. There I really don't want to give a lot
[00:14:05] about their specific strategies, but I can say like that uh they have like some amazing pair trade arbitragees through fixed through like uh through different fixed income securities. I'd say that these trades are very very low risk if you know what you're doing because you literally hedged. >> Were any of the strategies that they taught you there at that company applicable to any other security or crypto that uh you later traded? >> That's also a good question. I think uh yeah not in the the complete case but
[00:14:37] some of the strategies like just uh always trying to buy something on the bid and not on the ask like uh aggressively just trying to be more passive stuff like that the such habits add up in your trading in the long term for sure. So uh even though obviously trading crypto is much more different I'd say that uh I tried to apply some of my knowledge that I gained in that trading for I try to apply it through crypto I try to apply it in my own trading uh some of the things definitely successfully some of the other things not so much but yeah that's an excellent
[00:15:08] question >> did did you share with your um co-workers your desire to trade other securities and branch out into crypto and and if so uh how did they uh kind of respond to you. >> Uh 2017 to me it was a bit of a surprise that uh people were a bit narrowminded uh in that that they were like very bearish on crypto. They were like oh this crypto is just just a scam. But you know it's like it's increased like a th00and,000 percentages from 2017 most cryptos. So uh to me it was a bit of a
[00:15:40] surprise that people that actually they even had money to invest and stuff. They just really didn't uh they didn't really much care because uh first of all they understand a lot about the fixed income market like uh they know the best dividend stocks. I mean it sounds a bit uh uh you know sometimes they say equities are for younger people and and as you go older like you tend to go to more dividend uh favorite stocks. the I would say they're still too young to only invest in dividend stocks but still they they have some awesome strategies that uh uh with a little bit of leverage
[00:16:13] it gives them like awesome returns every year that is like very risk-f free for them. Yeah, I was a bit surprised as I said that 2017 most people weren't really bullish on crypto but obviously the times have changed that uh at least half of the traders I know right now are like very invested in crypto. They got in a bit late but obviously not late enough. They're still weighing the winners for sure. Uh so yeah. >> Yeah. So during this journey uh how much of this if any did you share with your friends and family and if so how did
[00:16:44] they uh respond to >> Well, yeah. It's it's a very difficult journey. I I don't want to say too much that I'm too special because like uh I would compare this to like any other sort of entrepreneurship that one might try. If you like tried a startup or small business uh it's a venture. It's a huge risk. Um, most of the time it's going to fail. Uh, people usually come and tell you like when are you gonna get a job? You know, that's all of this is something very very uh normal uh in
[00:17:14] trading because trading is literally just like a business. That's about it. I mean uh nothing too much, nothing too little. Uh the support wasn't that uh amazing from most of my friends uh and my family. But still I I would have to thank my family for sure that uh they have been supporting me through the years when I have needed their support. >> How long were you at that uh at your first trading company? >> Uh 12 months. I was trading 12 months >> and then you decided to move on. Uh why exactly? Because it you felt stifled by
[00:17:45] the types of securities that they traded and you want to do more. >> Yeah. I mean uh it wasn't working out for me. Uh to be honest, I left on my own will but uh if I didn't leave, they would probably fire me like in the next few weeks 100%. Uh so yeah, I started I started like slowly increasing my account but uh I just I was lost at one point and I I saw that there is no uh continuing in that in in that point. I I thought that I I really enjoyed my time. I learned a lot about myself about what
[00:18:16] I want to trade and what I don't want to trade in my case for example. And uh obviously it has been an very important life lesson for me. >> So when you quit that company, did you have a goal to uh trade entirely uh off of your um your earnings? In other words, have your primary source of income be trading or did you look for another job? >> Uh at that time I was still too young. I mean I still didn't uh look at it that way. I mean uh I tried to do trade crypto like for four or five months but
[00:18:48] the market was really tough as I said. I really have like maybe one or two very impressive crypto trades. Everything else I just I was just losing in my uh holdings as I said even though I tried to like uh sell and buy back lower. I tried a few times but it just went lower and lower. Uh it was a tough market. So I understand I understood like pretty fast like in the four or five months that uh I need to get some sort of income. So I need to get some sort of new job. Uh and uh I had some experience in crypto. So I I saw that some crypto startups were hiring and said why not?
[00:19:20] Why not? So that was my next part in my career. >> Oh okay. So tell us uh tell us about your uh next crypto job. >> Uh well it was basically a so let's see say a sales job. It was like a business development or sales they as they call it. Uh it was like a brilliant startup of a few people. I'd say as I recommended that uh if anybody can afford to work in a trading floor around where he he is for example I I would say that um I would recommend for somebody
[00:19:51] to work in a startup uh I think it's very amazing to have like a really five or six maximum people even even smaller amount of people like uh having so much uh jobs to do like you have to really control your time it's like I would say it's a step to entrepreneurship because there is a lot of work. There is a few number of people and basically everybody uh figure out what he can do and divides all the jobs by themselves. So I would say working at a startup is really really good uh uh first step into
[00:20:22] becoming an entrepreneur >> and while you were working there you were you trading your own account? >> Uh no not at that time not at that time uh I was just figuring out if I had any edge at all. I mean I I didn't even know that I still would have any edge left in me. as I said. So, uh I was just trying to grind like uh like jobs in my country. Yeah. >> And so, while you're doing this job, tell us a little bit about the process of you um continuing to explore finding your edge, finding what to trade and how
[00:20:54] to trade. Uh tell us about that journey. >> This is a very interesting question. Once again, um this journey is uh pretty long. uh in the beginning obviously I I I I wasn't able to find my edge at all uh not trading crypto not trading uh uh fixed income in the beginning um as I also said in 2020 when I began once again trading on the stock market with a relatively small account I was really really lucky that just basically all my swing trades they were just going up and
[00:21:25] up and up especially like when I was in GameStop like I made like a pretty good return on that even though I sold pretty early I would say but it doesn't really matter. I mean uh what happened happened. So I I would say that um that's really not my edge trading swing trading it's a bit difficult for my uh personalities for my traits and a little by little I uh when I was learning more and more about myself I found out that basically uh I'm pretty good when I have a little bit of time like if I have like
[00:21:56] two three seconds of time and I have to make a fast decision I'm pretty good in those those times that u that I really have a limited amount of time to think and I have to make a decision in swing trading you have like a long time to make a decision. You can like think about your entry, you can think about your exit and stuff. Uh in my scalping that I'm more more of a scalper. Uh I would say that that's really not that much more important. It's really important that to think fast, to react fast to the order book, to uh cut your losses fast if you need to like to basically make a decision in a very fast
[00:22:27] amount of time. But uh getting to that point, it has been um it had took me years to find out like what I'm really good at. I think the point in my career I figure out I'm I'm now a consistently profitable trader was when I found out that uh trading pre-market is uh what is uh is my my best edge because u I literally I at my second floor that I started like in 2021 uh there was a point in time where I went to the office and I was in the office for 13 hours a
[00:22:59] day every day for like six or seven months. I was trading pre-market. I was trading intraday. I was trading after market. I mean I was in a complete uh burnout so to speak and uh I analyzed my results for this six seven months of trading and I found out that I consistently made money pre-market and I consistently lost it intraday. Uh so >> figuring that out, I just made the decision, okay, I'm going to be a pre-market trader and from now on like 95% of my trades are going to be pre-market. And ever since then, uh,
[00:23:31] I've had a very, uh, unique batting ratio of about 83%, 82, 84%. Uh, and yeah, that's that's my edge right now. >> Well, you mentioned earlier that you made some money on GameStop uh, um, swing trading. Uh, were you into the other meme stocks as well? >> Yes. Uh, uh, as I said, unluckily, I sold a bit earlier like, uh, my entry was about 14 in GameStop. I started selling when it got to 40 40 something and my last shares I sold it at 60
[00:24:01] something. Uh it was it was a bit early but uh with the money that I sold GameStop I started like speculating in BlackBerry and AMC so I made some money there. So really I can I can't like be that that disappointed. Uh but yeah I I'm happy that with a pretty small account I was able to take advantage of the EU euphoria of 2020. the euphoria that uh literally uh every professional trader I know literally every one of them that has traded in that time tells
[00:24:32] me that that has been their best year and unfortunately I wasn't a professional trader in 2020. It was a hobby of mine but still I I made a bit of money that could carry me through the next year so I'm happy. >> So you had some early success with that. Uh how did you feel about at that time just continuing uh with your strategies of the time and and continuing with swing trading? >> Exactly. That's exactly what I thought. Uh I had the luck that uh it turned out like when I uh disband they disbanded our team from the job that I had. I was already hobby trading and I was
[00:25:04] basically making more money than in my job already. So I was thinking about going full-time again. And uh two millionaire friend two millionaire trader friends of mine uh they made quite a lot of money in 2020 and they said okay we're going to make our own trading floor like we're going to invite our own people to work for us etc. So it was like a it was obvious that I would join them because like especially one of them is like a pretty good friend of mine for many many years that we traded together in 2017 as well. So yeah I I began at that at that uh floor and I
[00:25:35] actually I remember telling them guys I'm not going to trade your fixed income uh stuff. I'm going to trade like I'm a swing trader now. I'm making money consistently. Uh but obviously that was literally the high of the euphoria. That was like February 2021. That was like uh the euphoria was starting to go down like all the stocks started selling and uh my first two months were pretty tough. I was uh down both months. Um I was still uh I was once again at the point where I was considering if I should be a trader at all. Uh and basically it got to the point that it
[00:26:07] really got to the point that I was had to be I had to be all in. I mean uh if I didn't make it at that point in trading uh my life would definitely been uh turned out for the worse quite a lot. Uh but I would say a little bit of hard work uh fixed that problem for me. >> Uhhuh. You said uh earlier that you had to be quote allin. Um how is that? I mean why did you feel the need to be allin? Well, because like uh at 2021
[00:26:39] for example, I I was like already 30 years old. I mean uh there it it comes a point in time like where you really want to know what you're doing with your life like especially with your career, what you're doing professionally, how you're making your bread. Uh so uh that's a very important for every male. I would say that's probably the most important thing in a male's life to figure out how he's going to uh make his living. Uh so yeah, it's definitely a very tough journey. Uh even to this day, uh it might sound a bit strange even to this
[00:27:10] day uh where I'm literally a proven consistent trader. I know when I lose money, I know I'm going to make it back on the next day, but still I feel so bad. I mean, still I feel the the feeling that sometimes I used to get that uh you get that uh it's just the imposttor syndrome, you know, you just think what are you doing here? uh how am I trading against all of the hedge funds among the world among the world? Uh how do I have a consistent record at all? But uh it's a mindset also. It's a mindset. >> Chat with traders is brought to you by
[00:27:41] Tasty Trade. Tired of trading on rookie apps? Then get the platform for serious trading. Tasty Trade. Tasty Trade gives you the tools to trade your way. Chart your heart out with over 300 indicators. Know your odds with probability of profit and move fast with Quick Roll. Trade what you want and trade it your way. Stocks, options, futures, and more all in one account on one platform. No wonder why serious traders choose Tasty Trade. Visit tastyrade.com and see for yourself. Tastyrade Inc. is a registered
[00:28:13] broker dealer and member of FINRA NFA and SIPC. So you said impostor syndrome. Uh tell us about that. Um, how did that afflict you? And is it did you find a way to overcome that? >> Uh, I I would say I I still haven't found a way to overcome that. As I said, >> te tell us a little bit about what is that the imposttor syndrome and and how can it affect traders? >> I I think it affects like many uh it affects many different careers, many
[00:28:43] different uh kinds of careers for sure. But uh in in in trading, it's definitely one of the most uh uh specific I would say because literally uh especially in day trading uh it's like your life is like you have a P&L in front of you and basically that's your worth for the day. If you have made money, you have lost money in the day. Uh it's very important to have your mindset straight. I remember when I had a buy bad mindset. I think it's a good example in 2017. I was thinking, "Oh, today I'm going to take a
[00:29:13] break because you know what? If I had been trading, I I could have lost money in that day, which is like a very terrible mindset. I mean, I recognize right now how bad of a mindset that is that I had 2017. And right now, my mindset is totally the opposite. Like, I would literally never take a break because I'm consistently profitable. Why would I take a break when I know if I stay on the computer today and just look at the screens, I find out a trade or two, I'm going to make money?" And uh so basically I haven't really taken a break uh except for the New York public holidays you know the financial holidays
[00:29:45] except that that I usually don't take breaks at all. >> Uh so you were doing well early on in in the the meme stock rally. Uh and then you said in what early 2021 as the market started to go down uh you started suffering losses. To what degree if any did you consider selling short stocks? >> You always get that mindset for sure. In the beginning, I've always thought myself a bit to to be a bit of a bear. Like I would even say that I was sort of bit expecting that little bit of crash that we had after 2021 after all the the
[00:30:17] euphoria settled in. I can I can talk about spaxs. For example, I'm I'd say one of the things I I trade a lot are spacks. Uh the specs tell us what what are specs? >> Special purpose acquisition companies. They're usually in I can talk a lot about them but in in a few words I would say they're just companies that are trading publicly. Uh they're blank check companies trading publicly on the US market that uh their goal is to to get a private company public. I mean they they acquire a public company. So the private company can become public on the market.
[00:30:48] It's like a it's it's a different way different from the IPO and from the direct listing a different way from getting listed on the stock market. And uh with that there is many pros and cons of specs like uh uh it's uh basically very some shady companies that are foreign companies that that getting uh that have been getting listed and there have been many pump and dumps. There's many spacks that have fallen like 99% from their highs especially after the euphoria in 2021. But uh I like the question you asked me. You ask me did
[00:31:20] you think about shorting them? And uh in spaxs like uh there was a very interesting phenomena in spaxs back in that time. It was called the redemption squeeze because people figured out that uh spaxs when they get listed at $10, they instantly when they lose their nav, they lose their power. So they could basically fall below $10, they usually instantly fall and they from 10 they go to three or four. So people figured that out and people started selling short like a lot of shares. Uh but the redemption squeezes that that that meant
[00:31:50] that u when people sold short and a lot of people wanted to redeem their shares for $10, the float got minuscule and uh for example like Spack had like 50,000 shares or 100,000 shares float and it turns out like half of the float shares short. So uh a bit of a redemption squeeze happened. So uh people started buying them as you as you say it was a bit of a it's a very unique for me. This is very unique because people started buying the really I don't want to say it the really crap companies the the companies that really uh people don't
[00:32:22] believe them at all just because they know that at the merger vault people are going to redeem their shares and then the float people will become small and then there will be a squeeze like on $10 they will easily go to 20 30 40 on $50 and uh considering that you have bought it at like $10 it's uh pretty pretty uh nice. So tell us more about the process of learning your style of trading and how you eventually ended up being a scalper. >> Well, this is I would say this is something that everybody should uh is a
[00:32:54] a role that everybody should walk from for themselves. Maybe I would say before figuring out your style, I would recommend listening to the podcast such as chat with traders because uh I even have a YouTube video on my channel that I say that chat with traders is the source that has actually influenced me the most in my career uh because uh at that time it was important to me to figure out my style and listening to many many different kinds of traders that you have on your show uh it has really impacted me uh showing me that uh there is really many many different ways
[00:33:26] to succeed in this market. You just have to find your own style. So, uh in for the first part, I would say really have some sort of influence. Uh I would say once again, chat with traders. There is like literally the best traders in the world have interviews on that podcast. So, there people that can definitely influence you for your style. For me, I have to say it's basically trial and error. I mean, trial and error is like something you learn for video games. Uh as I said, I have a competitive gaming background. Uh it is something that uh
[00:33:57] it's a bit specific that because uh back in my time when I was young I I say computer games were they were a bit more difficult. They were you had to really put a bit of a grind to to win at a game. There wasn't like online guides. There wasn't like a cheats. I mean there was cheats but I mean it was difficult to to win at a game or like to play a multiplayer game. Uh you really had to just uh play and trial and error try uh and and see what happens. So uh I always like to say that uh uh grinding the Starcraft ladder when I was in
[00:34:28] university it has a much more uh positive effect on my trading that like my university courses that I studied I studied about the stock market and like macroeconomy microeconomics uh international economics and stuff like that. I'd say just uh playing the game teaches you like when you lose not to give up like to to figure out what you did wrong, how to become better like uh competing in a video game. Uh this really really uh gives you all of the all of the things you need to to become a successful trader, I think, because uh
[00:35:01] you just have to stay on a on a on a computer screen. You just have to stay on it the whole day. You you know, you have to grind a lot. You know, it's a game. You figure out the rules for yourself. >> Uh so you mentioned earlier that um uh something about the video gaming uh quick response time >> uh possibly led into your um scalping. So, what kind of video games are these that taught you these lessons? You mentioned Starcraft. Um, >> yeah. Uh, I am a supreme fan of the realtime strategy genre. I've played a lot of Starcraft, Starcraft 2, Warcraft
[00:35:31] 3. There's my my most passionate games. I've also played a lot of Counterstrike when I was little as well, which is a first-person shooter. And I would say I've been mostly influenced by strategy games and by shooter games. Yeah. And I would say that in both types of games, I think the strategy element is the most important. uh but uh in the most recent real-time strategy games uh there is a lot of micromanagement there is a lot of you have to be very fast I mean uh your mind is constantly thinking about something and when I trade like in in
[00:36:01] the pre-market I try to be something like that I try to be in the zone I just try to just click on every stock and uh basically check why the stock is up see if there is some sort of news about that stock uh see if there was a volume premarket check if there is any short float like go through all of these checklists all of these stuffs that I do for example every day. It's like very similar to a game and you do that in the strategy game as well. You have to uh you have to know how much your food supply is. You have to know what what your gold income is. You have to know uh does your gold income support uh building this much units. Like you have
[00:36:34] to think about these things constantly. I'd say I'd really compare the stock market to a strategy game. >> You mentioned that you just you ended up evolving into trading just the pre-market. Why is that? Is that because of your time zone there in Bulgaria? It's much later and you can go to sleep at a normal time or >> Exactly. I I forgot to mention that. I think this is I think one of the biggest edges about pre-market trading. Uh I I think I'm a successful pre-market trader mostly because most of the Americans are sleeping at that time. You know, it uh
[00:37:04] it opens 4 a.m. EST. Like if you're in Pacific time zone as you said that you were like you you really basically you you can't sleep if you want to trade premarket which is very very tough. I say most of the traders that are serious in the states, they try to uh divide their time like when they're the most uh productive so to speak. And another reason that I chose to trade premarket was basically because there was a sort of a clash between my styles and the styles of my colleagues, the the fixed income traders. Basically, I went to the office at like 10:00 and uh in the
[00:37:36] morning and they were coming in the office at like uh 2:00 p.m. I mean, it was like literally me 3 or 4 hours alone like uh researching uh doing my stuff pre-market. Uh uh so that affected me as well. Uh but I I would say affect me for the positive because uh in the end I figured out something that really works. uh I figure out that there is an edge that uh I know how to to use it and uh I that's why the reason I don't take breaks is because I don't know when this edge will last. I mean I'm worried about
[00:38:08] edge erosion. I'm worried that uh the AIS will come and take our jobs so to speak as traders. Uh, so I just try to grow as much as I can. Um, and basically take advantage of the market because I know that there the the market might not be always free. The market might not always be accessible by people like me. So I'm just trying to do my best. >> Uhhuh. And so what is it about the pre uh pre-market um that attracts you? Um the few times that I've looked at it, it appears to be quite illquid for most
[00:38:39] names. So are you limited in in the types of securities that you can trade? >> Uh well basically I trade everything premarket that moves. Uh as I already once said I like premarket because there is not that much volume but when there is volume like you literally you see it. So you can just instant click on the stock check out where the buyers are, where the sellers are. I love to say that I I compare my style a bit to to detective trading like private investigator trading. uh because you have to figure out stuff about company
[00:39:10] like figure out oh why is this company trading up what has happened is there like uh has there some news about it has there somebody tweeted about this company like is there something in the sector is it because a competitor's drug is for example failed and that's why this one is going up this biotech for example uh there is many many different kinds of price action that you can see pre-market and basically I have tried to uh recognize most of them Every day that I trade, I I like to think that I know basically I know why all the companies
[00:39:41] are trading the way they are. I mean, if I see a company is 50% up, I would know, oh, because it's an earnings. It's a positive earnings and it's probably going to be an EP, an episodic pivot. It might really go up, for example. Uh, in other cases, like there is a short report, some uh some some activist short sellers, they write a report and the stock goes down, for example. And this there that's why I I'd say I'm also like more of an event driven trader. Uh so so yeah. >> Uh so so the news um so how much do do
[00:40:11] fundamentals matter in your in your trading when you look at the news? How do you how do you assess and filter the news? >> Uh this is a great question. Uh to be honest like uh I have been watching I I use a new software that I I have been watching for the past almost five years now. um like with time. I remember like the the first month that I was doing that I was like I I said I literally said out loud I said oh guys I see no correlation between use and the
[00:40:42] stock price I'm going to stop doing this and now looking at this backwards I I was so stupid to think that but uh I had to just I had to put in the repetitions you know I just had to have like six months looking at the news and like uh when you start like looking at the news enough you you start start to feel form connections between the news and the stock you start to think like oh here there might be some irrational buyers and here I might be able to short and u also including that and including trial and error obviously in the beginning I wasn't as as much profitable as I am now
[00:41:12] I had a lot of losers and I had to cut out my losers I had to figure out like uh at what sort of trades I was consistently losing money and I would even say that at the trades that I was losing money I sort of reverse them and I try to take the other position like if there is something some sort of news that I used to go long on Right now I I know that this the news is a scam for I know that. So I'm just placing offers and I wanted people to buy from my offers like around the ask price and then short from there and usually I make money like that. If at some case like
[00:41:43] you believe that your setup is like uh really failing every time then maybe just take the reverse uh position uh of your setup and maybe you might be successful. So that's what a bit of an advice from me. Can you give us an example of a of a news release on a stock that you would have gone long in the past and and you would have lost money but instead you reversed it? How do you how do you sus out like this news like what give us a specific example if you can remember? >> Uh uh let me think about a specific example
[00:42:15] for now but uh there is a few kind of stocks that I like to short on news. like one of them usually I I trade a lot of Chinese stocks and I'm I'm a bit short biased on them especially of the smaller caps Chinese stocks if the but first of all like you have to know like what kind of stock it is there are some they're heavily manipulated and they are very difficult to trade if you have no insider info but uh uh I would say that on many news like Chinese stock they would do something that you would not expect them to do like on positive
[00:42:45] learning they would go down like so I take the usually I take the the opposite direction of those trades Uh but uh a better example for me is like there are some very small cap companies that lists that are listed on the New York Stock Exchange. There are companies that are like below 10 million market cap like sometimes even below two or three million. Uh there are companies that are just uh I'm going to give you an example like let me show you BI just write it B I NI uh it's called Bowling Bowlinger Innovations. If you like place a chart
[00:43:17] on on daily or monthly, you can see that uh literally this this uh stock has been uh falling uh quite a lot like u uh there are stocks that when you zoom out and you see that there are stocks that are that are like made to scam people to scam the investors out of their money for example that uh not so directly scam but like you know what they do they offer some sort of news that are supposed to be positive uh but in the end it turns out that they're just um having an offering on the next day they offer shares to raise capital and basically that's their whole thing like
[00:43:48] there are a lot of such companies on the American market. Uh so you have to recognize them. So this is like one of the stocks that I used to I used to say oh this stock has gone a lot down. I think there is uh if this news is really positive, I'm going to buy here a big size and hold and usually I'm going to lose money in that case because uh really the the news is probably not that bullish as you think and just people are just trying to dump their shares that uh they have been um in an offering really recently. So yeah, >> from uh the charts that you uh sent us before the interview, uh it appears that
[00:44:20] your average hold time is just a few hours or less. Why is that? Um can you go through that with Well, uh to uh to be honest, I don't really hold overnight positions. Uh very rarely. I I take some positions like mostly if I try to uh if I want to trade on the afterhour session, sometimes I buy something or short something there and hold it through the next day. But uh very rarely I take position that I hold them for more than a few days. Um to be honest, uh I would say that I'm a bit scared
[00:44:51] scared. That is the that is the truth. Um I'm a bit of a scared trader. uh but uh as I always like to say that I have uh made my success in trading through my fear and not through my greed. Uh and even though like uh maybe I have not made as much money as I could have made through the years, I know that uh I am making this money with a very very low amount of risk and I know that uh uh if something uh bad starts starts happening I mean I can just stop trading if I think that I don't have an edge anymore.
[00:45:22] >> U so uh what do you think drives this sphere? Did did you blow up an account or more um earlier in in previous years? >> Yeah. >> Or was it the losses of 2021 or >> I can get some nice analogies. For example, I was pretty quickly to escape the euphoric markets of 2021 after the GameStop because uh I had an experience with the crypto like crypto 2017 to 2018 like the first big Bitcoin uptick to like almost $20,000. I experienced that.
[00:45:54] I was literally I was trading crypto back then. I was also then working in some crypto startups as I said. So uh I really really experienced the bare market. So uh I was really really understanding that when there is such a huge euphoria like this I would know like to sell like a bit earlier than I thought and uh stuff like that. So uh having this sort of life experience I think it really teaches you and uh it might not even teach you about financial markets might teach you about like making decisions in life. I mean it's uh something that one can make a lot of lot
[00:46:24] of conclusions about. >> And how does one measure euphoria? What how does it show up? Like what are some of the best indicators to for us to see? Oh, clearly this is a euphoria going on. >> Well, uh right now I think we're in euphoria. U especially the small caps the the past few months. Uh also the the Bitcoin is an all-time high. SPI and the NASDAQ is like almost at all time high. The market is falling a bit today, but it's basically at all time high the market. So, uh when markets at their all-time high, usually you have a
[00:46:56] euphoria. So, that's like one thing to to recognize. Uh personally, I think that uh the crypto euphoria is getting a bit out of hand. I mean uh I don't want to say I'm bearish or something but I I I I sense a lot of people like start feeling uh and thinking these ridiculous ridiculous thoughts like uh how uh for example if you have like 0.3 bitcoin is going to be generational wealth like in 10 years or stuff like that. Uh I mean I'm not saying it's not imposs it's not uh possible. I'm just saying that uh one
[00:47:27] must really realize the euphoria at one point. Uh even though I recognize that Bitcoin is like the best asset of all time literally I also have to mention that uh it is an asset that um it has been proven to fall like 70% of the highs. It has done this at least 10 times in its life span if if I recall correctly about Bitcoin. So um uh I would recommend for people not to go all in on something speculative as Bitcoin even though it has proven to be like
[00:47:58] literally the best investment. I'm just saying that not all people can uh w withstand a 70% down tick in their investment. It's very difficult like uh it really it really is such down swings. Uh it might be the falls of your career and luckily I don't really have down swings. Uh so uh that it really really helps my my psych in trading. >> Uh you mentioned you don't really have uh down swings. What do you do to avoid draw downs? Because I noticed on your on the information you sent us that you
[00:48:28] what the last 18 or 20 months you haven't had a single month of a draw down, >> right? And and so yeah, what tell us how do you avoid draw downs? >> Uh let me start once again speaking a bit about my scalping style. Um because pre-market as we already have discussed it's a bit of a more of a illquid situation. So, u pre-market if you make a decision and you're wrong, uh it's pretty bad and you're probably going to lose more money that you can uh you want
[00:49:00] than you wanted to lose on this trade because you don't have liquidity. So, uh that's why I I'd say my high win rate style like about 83% style. Uh it is very suitable for pre-market because uh I know that most of the times I'm going to be right. I'm just going to like for example mean revert the situation to the close price, the stock to the close price for example. That's what I can think about that right now. What else did you ask? I did that answer your question entirely. >> Yeah. Uh yeah. So, so essentially in the pre-market you're looking for stocks
[00:49:31] which are moving with volume, you know, good volume liquidity based likely based on some sort of news event, right? >> Exactly. Exactly. >> I I see. And so then uh how do you determine if the news that just got released where the if the stock is more than factored in that news? like the stock is even above where you expect it because like it's in in its own bubble. >> Um, how do you play that? >> Usually I have setups that I I take the news and I trade with the trend and I
[00:50:02] have setups that I just take the news and I mean revert to the to the mean. Uh, it really depends on the news but I I want to give an example that might make this a bit more simple. Like uh an easy example is like when I trade mergers and acquisitions like you have a company released the news that some company is going to buy another company for some amount of money in cash for example and uh basically it really depending on when it says that u the stock will I mean the the deal will finish up I mean when we completed the
[00:50:33] acquisition and uh considering for example the historic merger acquisition arbitrage rates uh you can like sort of figure out what the fair value of the company might be. There might be some things that you might you might not know you uh some risk that you might not know but usually uh you can even ask chat GPT I mean I I I use a lot of chat GP in training. You can even ask him to calculate this for you. And I would say that uh most of the time it has been doing like excellent results in like such more similar similar I mean more
[00:51:04] simple things to predict as price action like something as an acquisition because obviously if some somebody acquires somebody at $10, it's going to trade around $10. I mean so it's relatively simple to acquire this knowledge. Are you looking then to scalp like when it um overshoots to the downside and you think like you've you've got a little few percentage points there to play with because based on historical trends >> exactly >> believe that it's undervalued. So you'll take a long position possibly in that scenario. >> Well in in the acquisition merger trade
[00:51:34] you have to like figure out what the fair value is and basically if it trades below it you try to long or if it trades above it you try to short. It's like pretty simple. I mean nothing more complicated than that. And uh how often are you tempted to continue the trades uh into the regular trading hours um because you've got a good trend going or what have you and how how has that worked for you? >> This is an excellent question. Uh I have tried to basically implement some of my setups from pre-market into the into the intraday into the open. Uh it doesn't
[00:52:06] always work that well because uh like uh when market opens it's very very volatile. So, uh, if I have a tight stop, for example, I might be just tempted just to close to my stop. So, uh, if I don't have a tight stop, then I'm risking more. So, it it really depends on the setup. Uh, like, uh, the the good part is that little by little when I still when I figure out the news that I'm seeing pre-market, uh, a little by little, I start to memorize what sort of news tend to cause the most, uh, big
[00:52:37] movements. for example like uh I start figure out when where we might have an episodic pivot where we might have a beginning of a huge uptrend. So uh even though I really don't don't apply it in this moment uh if some day I want to transition into swing trading this it will be very quite easily for me to do it because uh I literally look at the stocks from the pre-market and uh I would say uh the best price you can enter is usually in the premarket. We're talking about strong stocks. Mhm. Oh, so so you find that uh uh the
[00:53:08] stocks in the pre-market haven't fully digested the news um the news release and by the time the market is trading regular session it becomes more efficiently priced in. >> Exactly. Yeah. uh and sometimes you just feel the volume coming in like for example uh even in pre-market like you you you you see that the volume for example if it's like 1 million shares average daily volume and you see that already it has like 3 million volume shares and you see it coming in and coming in then you you in this moment you know wherever you buy in the pre-market and you wait a bit in the
[00:53:39] intraday you're going to be in the profit for sure but there you have to have a bit more risk tolerance because uh obviously it can the trade can go not your way intraday >> and then do you have a particular kind target or general kind of percentage gain that you're looking for out of each trade uh when you scalp. >> Well, yeah, when I'm doing mean reversion, obviously to the close price like uh if I short something at 5% up, I'm looking to cover it at flat. For example, this is like the mean reversion and for those that are not mean reversing steps that the the trend
[00:54:10] following setups, it really depends. But I I may might give one example for just a small example is I have sometimes I see Chinese stocks they they uh they uh declare a dividend a special dividend that's pretty huge. Sometimes it's like $1 of a dividend. And sometimes I figured out that uh if I buy it like in the pre-market, usually I'm going to make uh this one whole dollar of profit. I'm going to make it like in in the intraday if I hold it. But this is just like a small uh example I'm giving.
[00:54:41] Excuse the last interruption here. This is Tessa. We hope you're enjoying this episode so far. If you love the podcast, please give Chat with Traders the best review you can on whatever platform you're listening from. This will help us to keep the episodes coming. Also, if you haven't subscribed to our email list, please hop on to chatwithtraders.com and click on subscribe so we can keep you posted of information that may be of importance. Thank you. Now, back to the chat with our guest. What what would you say are your greatest challenges as as a
[00:55:12] trader? >> Uh my greatest challenges uh I think that uh I'm a bit stuck into the don't fix what ain't broken mentality. Uh I'm basically living a life that uh I'm just focusing on trading. I'm not trying to take like any uh big risks in my life. I'm just trying to focus on my work. Uh not uh go through a lot of stress. don't don't do a lot of side hustles and side projects. I just basically want to invest all of my time in trading. This
[00:55:44] is a bit of a downside in the sense that uh it's a bit of a non-transferable skin skill set uh trading. I mean, even though I'm pretty good right now, I know that uh I know that some some things may happen that might really destroy my edge. Like even with the AIS taking over, even with uh I I sometimes give the example at uh if you remember like when the in 2022 when the war in Eastern Europe happened. U basically what happened was they delisted all of the Russian stocks from the American stock markets. They delisted all of them.
[00:56:16] >> So uh I personally like to trade Chinese stocks. I think like maybe at least 30 or 40% of my all of my profits are from Chinese stocks. Uh if China decides to invade Taiwan for example, I think uh everybody knows that most likely the stocks will be halted. Uh I won't be able to trade Chinese stocks and obviously this it's won't be the biggest issue in the world that I won't be able to trade Chinese stocks. But uh still I recognize that uh you you we have I mean we must not take for granted what we have like the the trading that we have
[00:56:46] right now. um the free market that basically the the New York markets New York markets they uh they're just romantic. I mean they're romantic for me that you know that at any point you can take one the direction or the other and you might be a winner. So I really like that in the markets. >> Uh so do you have any uh advice or based on all your experience uh to traders how to avoid draw downs and how to achieve such a high win rate that that you have achieved? Well, it really depends on the
[00:57:18] style. Obviously, if if you're going to be a swing trader, you're not going to have such a big win rate. Uh I also mentioned that I have like a a pretty high uh consecutive winning days record like 72 in a row. But uh keep in mind that that is impossible to do if you're swing trading. Like literally the only possible way to have 72 days in a row is like by scalping because uh you can just go in and go out every day and you know that uh you have made the money. Well, if you're swinging trading, you're going to find that most of the time you're going to be in a draw down. So, if you
[00:57:48] don't like draw downs, uh I would say try scalping for sure because uh in scalping, you can easily go in and go out. Uh as Mark Murvini famously once said, uh like you that you're going to die by a death from of a thousand cuts and not going to lose all in one trade. Um so, yeah, just cutting your losses, it's very important. Even though I have a very very high win rate, all of the all my colleagues know that when I'm wrong, I just cut my loss. I mean, I I don't think about the trade anymore. I mean, I'm saying I I'm wrong this time,
[00:58:19] guys. I'm I'm out. I'm losing a little bit of money. Don't uh don't get your losers get too big because if you let your losers get too big, you're just going to lose your career at one point, I think. H how transferable would you do you think that your style of trading is if you could only trade in the regular market? >> What do you mean the regular I mean you think >> oh sorry if you could if you could only trade in the regular uh trading session when the market is open uh after the pre-market. >> Uhhuh. Okay. During the Okay. I think I
[00:58:51] might be able to become profitable. I mean I do have some strategies that I have like uh in the a bit after the open but obviously it's like a very few percentage of my trades but uh I I just know that if I want to try trading in the intraday market I know that my my win rate will become uh less and less. I mean it's very difficult to to have such a win rate such as mine is like uh more than 80% if you're just trading intraday. Uh I'm going to I'm probably going to fall to maybe around 60% I think. Uh which uh obviously I'm going
[00:59:24] to have a bit of more swings that way. So uh so yeah uh to be honest I have to take more risks. you're right that uh uh with such a track record, I can afford to take more risks because uh I'm never going to become a market wizard if I don't exponentially up my account because uh honestly in the last few years I've been only uh linearly developing my account like a linear growth and uh the the the greatest time traders they have all been exponential growth traders and uh if you can do it just do it because you're never going to
[00:59:55] have another chance. Mhm. And how often in the past uh have you used margin to uh amplify your positions? >> Uh that's a good question. In my style, usually I would say that uh if you can get margin on specs, for example, in pre- merger specs, that's very good because they have a a par value of $10 that you can literally not use lose more money. They cannot fall below 10. Uh so if you can use margin with spacks like uh getting a big size
[01:00:26] like 10 20 30 50,000 shares and you can get it early at like $10 you know that you basically have a risk-free trade you know that you I mean only the carry cost obviously only the opportunity cost of capital that you have but obviously that if you buy the spack near nav you have an upside that it reaches far above nav and you can make a good profit for example >> so I think that's a example yeah >> yeah yeah so so do you adhere to any positions size um limitations or do you frequently go all in or with a good
[01:00:58] portion of your portfolio in any one stock >> pre-market? The thing is that uh very few of the trades that I want to I can take the maximum size that I want to. So, uh, as you might have noticed from my track record, I have a lot of trades premarket that I have like very small winners, like even like $5, $10 winners, but, uh, they add up when you have like 10, $20 trades, that's like 200 bucks. Like, trades add up, even if it's a really small trade. Uh, sometimes pre-market you don't have the big liquidity for you to to get the awesome mean reversion. Like, you might only see
[01:01:30] one person making a mistake. like you can literally see that it's just a 1,000 share offer that has been uh less than the fair value of the stock and you just try to buy the offer that's a thousand shares. Sometimes it's going to be more, sometimes going to be less. Really depends on the setup, but in such low volume mean reversion setups, you you just basically take what you can get. You take what you get. >> I see. Well, uh Mario, I would like to thank you for coming on Chat with Traders. >> Uh I thank you very much. It really has been a huge honor for me. Uh it just uh
[01:02:02] it's going to make my uh year from now. I I promise you. Best day of my year. >> Oh, fantastic. Fantastic. How can our listeners uh get in touch with you? >> Uh well, usually I have a YouTube channel in Bulgarian called the Wall Street Cat, but obviously you're not going to understand much of that. So, I would say let's keep the engagement to the channel Chat with Traders. If you guys have any comments under this video, I would be happy to answer in the comments. So, uh, if there are any awesome, uh, questions that you guys have for me, uh, I'm going to be in the comments in the the video. So, yeah,
[01:02:34] >> you talked about trial and error and that really resonated with me. It's an important part of your trading journey because I know a lot of traders may maybe they don't think of that way as trial and error and then they feel bad like, oh, maybe I should I should be trading this strategy, you know, and then, you know, they go to another one and they feel bad. They feel guilty about it. But they shouldn't feel bad. That's part of the journey because how would you know if you're good at something or not good at something if you don't if you don't go through it, you know? >> Well, Tessa telling telling you it's very difficult. It's very difficult to
[01:03:05] to analyze like what could be your your best uh way to to find profitability to find your edge. It's it's really different for all sorts of people. I would say that in all of the cases there is no shortcut for uh success. There is no shortcut for the hard work you have to put in. You always have to realize that uh people are trading like very very good traders trading floors around the world. Hedge funds uh they're trading like every day they are very much more informed than you. They might even uh have better execution than you.
[01:03:36] You have to find like in what way you're going to be better than them. You have to find in what way would you think that you can uh make money consistently on the market. like u chat with traders podcast I I want to say it once again like uh the chat with traders podcast it gives you so much different views so much u different uh ways to succeed being able having the access of so much free information today like having access to the best traders in the world like literally you can listen to the Christian Kulamagi podcast on chat with
[01:04:07] traders he's like the best in the world and uh having access to him it's like fascinating to me and Uh I think if there was ever a shortcut to success, it is like now when we have so much information and uh basically we just have to find what the right information is and when you when you do I think that uh if trading is for you then maybe you can succeed. >> You mentioned that um you got lucky back in 2020 during the co time and going back to trade. I you know when you said
[01:04:39] lucky okay maybe some part of it is lucky but I really believe that like what they say is luck is preparation meets opportunity cuz I know like back in 2020 I wasn't prepared and I did wasn't prepared and um for for something like that well nobody was but you in the back end you had to have been you know um prepared in some way for some you don't know what's going to happen but you must
[01:05:09] have been prepared uh for something to happen to be able to take advantage of whatever the market gives you. So, so that's why I thought like you know that was interesting because not everyone was able to do what you did right in 2020 as they say like everybody's a genius in the boom market I would say like uh especially the GameStop situation in 2020 uh early 2021 actually it was the situation it's something that uh we might not ever see again it was really something amazing it was really in a way
[01:05:42] retail are winning against the big hedge funds so uh I think that is basically did the uh something that really shows the Euphoria. It really was the GameStop thing. I think it really was the end of the Euphoria was with the GameStop early February 2021. So yeah, that's what I think like sometimes you just have to be a bit lucky. But uh in trading it's important when you see the opportunity to take it like especially when sculping. >> What would you have done if you didn't do that in 2020?
[01:06:12] >> Uh that's a tough question. Around 2020, I also started my YouTube channel because I wanted to like give back a little bit to the community. Honestly, I I see myself as a streamer. I even cons I have considered live streaming while I'm trading. Uh however, it really is going to be a bit tough because uh I really don't want to mix it so much because I'm I'm making a living trading. So, I don't want to uh like have so much people looking at me like while to live stream while I'm trading. So, I might have become some sort of streamer, something like that. But uh you never
[01:06:44] know like I'm pretty I think I'm a hard worker. So any sort of job that I could have like for example in the financial industry in Bulgaria I probably would have uh done at least average. >> Yeah. With your entrepreneurial spirit I'm sure that you know you would have made something happen either way. >> Well I wasn't always like that but I I appreciate the kind words like it has I I had to put in the work. >> I have one final question. Uh I was wondering what kind of sacrifices that
[01:07:16] you because you know traders don't get asked this a lot. Um but you know to get where you are now you must have sacrificed a lot. Something had to give. So what have you had to sacrifice in your life to to be where you are now at this stage in your career? >> Well there have been a lot of sacrifices. Uh obviously my time uh mostly like uh sitting uh in the screens all day uh
[01:07:46] a lot of uh I have had to had a lot of so to speak uh emotional sacrifices like I have to like especially at times that I was having like losses I had to just uh numb down and like don't think and try to uh sort of be like a zombie like I mean not not to say it like directly but uh like don't when you when you have a down week, like you just you don't people don't see life in you. Uh so maybe that's one of the sacrifices. But uh honestly, I'm I'm lucky that I'm I
[01:08:18] could be uh that I'm able to do this. I'm lucky that every day I'm able to like uh treat the stock market as a video game. So, uh I'm just lucky that uh uh me being good at video games that it something positive happened out of that because uh many people do not know this because I think there if any young people are watching now or listening now uh if you're like a very good competitive gamer and you like you're like a teenager like it's not uh it's something that you can really transition into uh a proper job like when you when
[01:08:50] you turn an adult because uh becoming I want to reiterate becoming good at a video game. It's like very similar to becoming good at the stock market. Like you have similar rules. You have uh trades such as uh I want to repeat myself like pattern recognition, game theory, memory, critical thinking and thinking under pressure things that can be practiced on video games where you don't lose money. So when you are in the stock market to become the best. >> You know what? Um that's interesting. Um
[01:09:22] now I do remember I I used to play um I know this is way before your days. I used to play Tetris. Have you heard of Tetris? That's probably the only game or Super Mario Brothers and anyway. Um, I I was very competitive when I was playing and I remember not wanting to give up and even if I lost, I would like keep playing again until I got better. So, I can see what you're saying about how gaming can really kind of like uh flex your muscles and and strengthen your your um mental
[01:09:55] mental abilities to not give up and and keep trying and keep trying. So, I I can really see the value in that thinking back. It's it's almost like you can be obsessed though, you know? You just can be obsessed with like trying to win and win. >> Well, you just better hope that you invest your time in like a optimized way so you know how to spend your time in order to become better at the thing that you're obsessed about. >> Yeah. Yeah. Well, great. I know it's getting late for you, but uh thank you for for taking a few more questions from
[01:10:25] me from from my perspective. >> Pleasure. You've reached the end of this episode of Chat with Traders, but rest assured, there are more episodes loaded with real market insight and zero hype on the way soon. So, to stay updated with each great new release, subscribe to the podcast in iTunes, and we'd love it if you'd leave a rating and review. We'll catch you next time on Chat with Traders. [Music]
