# 204: Brian Lee – Esports Pro Attains High Score Playing the Stock Market
# source: YouTube auto-captions (en-orig) https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=9ZxeTUJVUQg

[00:00:02] Markets, speculation, and risk. This is the Chat with Traders podcast, hosted by Aaron Fifield. What's good, folks? Welcome to the show. This is Chat with Traders 204, featuring Brian Lee. Three years ago, Brian, a former e-sports gamer, took a leap into day trading equities. Having since developed a talent for shorting the backside of inflated moves, paired with a great emphasis on risk
[00:00:33] management, Brian has experienced tremendous growth, both financially and in terms of market knowledge. In this chat with Brian, we go over his first year challenges and overcoming such challenges, the time he lost it all and how he bounced back, Brian's most frequently traded setup, and a detailed discussion about the use of R as a risk model, plus more. As you'll hear towards the end, besides sharing his thoughts and comments on
[00:01:05] Twitter, Brian has also published several blog posts, which are worthwhile reading, and he occasionally uploads videos on his YouTube channel. Links to all of the above can be found at chatwithtraders.com/204. And now, coming to you from California, here is Brian Lee. Before trading, you were a pro gamer for around about 10 years, I believe.
[00:01:36] That must be like the dream job for so many teenagers out there. Um, what was that like? Well, it was really, really interesting, uh, because I dropped out of university to pursue it, and it gave me a lot of opportunities to travel around the world, so I'm at a young age, I was able to to visit like Korea, China, and Sweden. There's all these different places I thought I'd never be able to go to. So, the experience of is in of itself was really nice. And it's really fun to play in a team environment because there's a lot of
[00:02:08] camaraderie. Like a lot of the guys, I love meeting with them at the hotels and everything and um it was just like a a lot of fun and in a lot of ways it was similar to kind of what I would imagine being like a rock star is like because wherever you go like people want to get signatures and take pictures with you and it was kind of a rush and actually like when I quit playing pro gaming, um I was wondering like how could I find something to replace it? Like there's all the highs were really high
[00:02:38] and everything like that. And trading was like one of the only things that really really matched it in terms of how passionate I could be about it and how I felt about it. And I really loved how it was mirroring that like competitive aspect in a lot of ways, but just as if you're just a single player in the team. So, when you were going to these other countries, were you playing like competing in front of a live audience? Yeah, a lot of times they would book out venues, sometimes actual like basketball
[00:03:08] arenas, and then they would just fill it fill it out and have you play on stage. And it was pretty much like a live event where they had hosts and casters and everything like that. And then it was broadcast online as well. That's crazy, man. And what about the prize money? I know that there's some big money being thrown around in e-sports nowadays. Were you able to pick any of that up? Unfortunately, I didn't get to pick up that much because when I started in e-sports, it was kind of a budding industry and like just to put in the perspective,
[00:03:40] um one of the last major tournaments I played in, we got top eight and made like 50,000 and then the next year was 500,000 for the same exact place. Oh, nice. So, I I now people are making millions and multi-millions on I mean, you place really highly. And, you know, like a lot of people would wonder why would you stop playing if the money just went up significantly and it's just you know, by that point I was getting older and a lot more burnt out. And I just couldn't keep the same motivation cuz
[00:04:10] I had like when I was playing, I was playing for passion. I didn't know it was going to turn into what it turned into now. By that point, I kind of reached a lot of my goals cuz I wanted to compete at the biggest tournament, which was it's called The International and they hold it every single year except for this year cuz of the pandemic, but um they hold it every year and the allure is that every year the prize pool gets bigger and bigger and the first year they had it was first place is a million dollars and now I think first place is like over 20 million um for the team that wins. So, it it grows every single year.
[00:04:41] That's epic. But like my goal as a at the beginning was just I want to go to that tournament. I didn't care if I got 16th place or first place. I just wanted to be there. And so, once I put everything I had into accomplishing that goal with my team I just you know, it's like you fulfill your dream and then now I wanted something else. Yeah. Yeah, I understand that. Man, those are those are high stakes though. That's that's incredible. Is it common for pro gamers to transition into trading later on? I
[00:05:12] mean, it kind of seems like a good fit. I don't know if you've heard of many people doing that. Well, I don't know that many people who trade to begin with. Okay. Seems like a very obscure kind of thing and I I've talked to a couple of my friends, but I don't think they're really going to get into it. It's like I I I I I understand where a lot of poker players come over here cuz I think they're all about the money, but I think with professional gamers, it's just a very like it's full on passion for them and a lot of times they get into it when they're pretty young, so
[00:05:43] they don't really think that far ahead. They just kind of go for the ride. Yeah, fair enough. Yeah, yeah. So, when you did start getting into trading, uh I'd be quite interested to hear a little bit about your experience from year one. So, how did you go during that first year? Yeah, my first year I was pretty much full-time straight away. At least that was my plan is cuz I wanted to Like I believe that, you know, if you if you say you've been trading for 3 years, but you just kind of on and off, like you're you might not be as experienced as somebody who gives it
[00:06:14] their all every single day for that year cuz it's about how many hours are actually putting into it. So, I was thinking that if I wanted to give this a really good shot, I would be going like 14 to 18 hours a day, just pushing myself every single day, and hopefully I can catch up and just be one of those superstar traders. So, like you know, I looked up to a lot of the traders now that are very successful and I want to be like them. I learned very quickly that in the first year I had no idea what I was doing because the year prior I had been paper trading
[00:06:44] and you know, when when there's no emotions involved, it's really easy to say like, "Okay, well, I can make $1,000 here and if I do that every single day, then I'll be really, really well off and the reality is once you start trading on the broker, there's like there were so many different things like you have to understand the platform, there's liquidity, you can't just get instantly filled and get out immediately, and I realized that a lot of the things I was learning was flawed. So, I had to
[00:07:14] really start over from the basics and figure out what am I doing here? And a lot of times when you first get into trading, you're pretty much a perma long because that's the most obvious thing and I was attracted to a lot of the short-term type of scalping trading because it made a lot more sense to me and I thought that you know, other traders they were up for a lot of risk because of their time horizon and whereas if you're scalping, you can just book those gains right away and just walk away.
[00:07:46] And I learned that that was very hard as well for me, super difficult, and I just bought about a lot of different education, trying to figure it out, and later realized a lot of it was kind of scammy, but I learned one or two things from each of them, like I was part of these pump and dump chat rooms where like you know, you you start to realize that they're kind of moving into different stocks because of momentum, but in a way you're creating the momentum yourself. And once I started to learn
[00:08:17] why people or why most newbies were looking at certain stocks, it helped me either avoid them or be kind of contrarian to them. And I think that I trade like I short penny stocks now, so you know, a lot a lot of times people who short penny stocks like have that realization at some point that if they just play the opposite side, there's an edge there. And that's kind of what got me to consistency once I started short selling, and then um what really really changed everything for me from being a losing trader, just
[00:08:49] hemorrhaging month after month, was learning risk reward and risk management through R multiples, and then also applying like a very special compounding technique, which I developed over and over the years, and like kind of now I can I feel confident to say, since I've been through it, like how somebody who's new to the game could minimize the risk, and also size up and increase their risk in a very systematic way that I feel is very very good for a new
[00:09:20] trader. Yeah, how much did you start out with uh when you got into trading? Like I know that PDT is uh kind of a bit of an issue for many traders in the US, uh you know, retail independent traders. Uh was that something you had to you know, try and get around. Yeah, well, I had I had just enough from gaming to be over PDT. And so, I just put everything I had into it. I think I started around like 30,000 or so. Okay. And what about the losses that you were
[00:09:51] taking that first year? Were they quite controlled or were you, you know, having sort of blowout losses from time to time? They were kind of all over the place cuz at some point I realized Well, they were all over the place because initially when I was paper trading, I thought I would just get in with a large amount of shares and get out really quickly and just bank it that way. And then I learned really quickly that I was going to blow my account up doing that. So, I sized really, really down. So, that even even when I had a big
[00:10:24] loss, it was still not that big of a deal. And um I did have to refund it a couple times just to stay over PDT. And I just made sure that as long as I could lose like 100, 200 times that I wouldn't hit that $25,000 mark. I've heard you speak in the past or maybe this was from your blog. Uh either way, you had mentioned that one of the things you struggled with early on was poor entries and also
[00:10:55] chasing. And I presume those two probably tie into each other quite well. Can you speak about why that was a struggle for you? Uh maybe how you went about improving these aspects. And also, when you talk about a poor entry, um you know, how did you How did you judge what was a poor entry? Well, yeah, poor entries for me was a lot of chasing. And I I attribute a lot of that to just overcomplicating
[00:11:27] how much of the level two that I need to incorporate into my own trading. And because talks about reading the tape and so naturally I wanted to learn and so I was just watching it very intently. And what I realized is that you know, the tape moves very, very quickly and a lot of times you don't want to miss the trade. So when things start accelerating, you get it kind of excites you. And emotionally, I just feel like I'm going to miss it. So I just would slam the bid and just get in immediately
[00:11:57] compared to letting my order work and wait for the better opportunity. Even though I knew that I was going to get a worse price, I just wanted to be in the trade at all times cuz I have kind of a FOMO issue. And I still do today, but the main thing that changed for me and how I developed from that was I I tried all different types of things like I used thinkorswim platform and you can kind of change the colors of the bars and add different types of indicators. So I tried to
[00:12:28] I literally tried to black out the bars that I didn't want to be entering on. So I made every candle like red and then the ones I want to enter on, I made them green. So I was hoping that would change things, but it didn't affect me at all. And then eventually what I did was I decided that I want to go full systematic um in terms of my entry and exit. So I developed a system where once I saw an entry signal for myself then that was the time to put out an
[00:12:59] order. And just from back testing it I knew that from the point where my entry signal triggered, there would be a sort of a bounce for me to get in as long as I wait for it. And I just started placing those orders day after day and eventually I would just keep getting filled because uh you know, I picked like a modest kind of I could try to top tick it on the bounce, but instead I just put a modest level where I'm for sure going to get filled. And that helped a lot so that I had more and I could believe in it. And eventually, I just
[00:13:30] built into this full systematic entry criteria, and that worked really well for me to fix everything. I'm making a note here to ask you about the systematic part of your trading. Um so, we'll come back to that in just a moment. I would like to ask you though, like how long was it, if we're talking time frame here, how long before you actually did start to gain some consistency and also, you know, some confidence in your ability to be able to trade well? Right. It took me a year to finally
[00:14:02] become consistent, but it was with a little bit of money. So, like I at that point, I was really discovering myself the first year and just learning the rules of the game, getting that screen time. And then, in year two, I started to see consistent results, and then that was really, really working for me, and I built a lot of confidence, but it didn't really prepare me for some events that had me draw back like pull back a little bit and draw down. And I actually lost
[00:14:33] like 50% of my overall gains during a really hot sector with um cannabis because in Canada, they were legalizing it, and it was a month out. So, pretty much every day, there was some kind of cannabis sector running, and normally, they would be good setups for me, but I didn't understand how much of a sector move, sector momentum can influence the trades, even though the stocks were technically garbage, they would still continue to go up and up and up every day, which made me feel like the risk reward was really
[00:15:04] good, and that I didn't want to miss it, so I just kept fighting those and taking losses. And at that point, I realized that it wasn't really about making the money, it was just about protecting it and figuring out how to filter these trades out. And like I really started to hit it off in early 2020 2020 because at the end of year two I actually blew up my account. So, I lost all my profits up to the up to that time and I was very consistent throughout that whole time.
[00:15:36] So, in year three I set a lot of different systems and rules to protect myself. Like most notably the max loss on the day. I never heard anybody talk about it really just how to protect yourself from this these blow-ups cuz on a lot of the tickers that I had trouble with it the main issue that I had was that I was revenge trading them and I was getting emotional because I felt like oh I'm right, but me being right doesn't mean that I can just ignore price action and in some situations I was growing way
[00:16:08] too large. So I would not accept the losers. And then I started averaging down and then sometimes I would win which further made me want to keep doing it even though I knew it was wrong and I just read like all these books about how to manage that and I watched I read a lot of blogs about how traders dealt with blow-ups and honestly none of them helped. And eventually after just thinking about it for months and months and months I just said the max loss was the only thing that was going to protect me cuz a
[00:16:39] lot of these setups they're good setups. I get I have the the right criteria to get in and everything like that. But it only takes one or two mistakes to lose everything. So, once I did that once I implemented the max loss on this year I've never really had a a big big loss and I feel like very I feel very confident now about my ability to just walk away and understand that I don't want to go through that blow-up again. And so now like my my equity curve is just parabolic just straight up
[00:17:10] and it's doesn't I've been waiting for the pullback and it's just not coming. Touch wood. Yeah. Did I hear you correctly when you said that it was towards the end of your second year trading where you you lost pretty much all your gains? I lost I lost almost everything, yeah. So, how much money are we talking there? Do you mind sharing? Sure. I Well, at that point I grew my account from PDT and I think I lost around around 100,000 or so.
[00:17:42] Wow. How did you How did you move forward from that? That must have been quite a setback. Yeah, it was it was really tough cuz the part of the reason why it happened, too, was cuz I was visiting my um my fiance's family for Christmas and Thanksgiving and um I told myself I wasn't going to trade cuz it's not my environment. And you know, I ended up just trading anyway cuz of the I had FOMO and opportunity
[00:18:12] cost and all that. And then I remember when I was sitting in in the room and I was my broker was sending me emails about getting margin called and having to refund the account everything. I just everyone was asleep in the house cuz it's really early. I didn't want to get on the phone and be like talking to my broker and kind of panicking in front of everyone. And so instead of that I just froze and let it balloon. And then eventually they just started marketing me out at the top
[00:18:43] of this trade. Just completely blew up my account and I was just I just turned the computer off and went to sleep and like when I woke up I had to I had to literally act like nothing was wrong for the next 2 weeks Oh, man. while I was there. It was really a terrible thing to go through. But like part of me as a professional gamer I've gone through really bad things as well. Where I kind of I've lost so much that I know how to take a loss and just refocus and I I
[00:19:16] took a little bit of time off to figure out if I wanted to continue or if if this was just a a dream gone wrong. I decided that ultimately over time that I was doing really well. I can do this and I think that I think very long term, so I was thinking if I was going to make this into a career that might not be the biggest setback. I might be able to do come back from this and make a lot more cuz I know that trading can be very lucrative and I've seen what other
[00:19:46] people could do, so I just I got lucky in a sense because I didn't have any other options at that time. Like eventually I told my fiance and she was like no, I'm not going to I'm not going to fund you. You know, if you want to keep trading go work and at that point I didn't have a college degree or anything, so it was just like I could Uber or work at a Starbucks or something like that and I knew just that's just going to take way too long and the potential of trading is high. Fortunately for me kind of well, it's not it's not fortunate and unfortunate
[00:20:16] is like my father passed away towards the end of that year as well and so he left some life insurance money behind and with the blessing of my mom, she allowed me to refund my account just to the bare minimum and from there I took it extremely seriously. Like I I I didn't I couldn't lose at this point. I couldn't afford to lose. I couldn't afford to make mistakes. I said on my business plan, I figured out that um instead of letting this account just grow like a
[00:20:47] high score in a video game where it's like I want I want this huge account, you know, why don't I just pay myself consistently? So every time I would go over like 30,000, 40,000, I would just start wiring out all of the surplus and banking it and treating it as a job. And since that point, I've only wired back three times out of 61 times this whole year. And it was like four or five thousand dollars. One
[00:21:17] of them was a mistake because I had an accounting error. So, I've just been treating it like a business, wiring out, not sizing up too badly. Keeping those max losses, taking taking it, treating as a professional, and just you know, doing it for my family, doing it for myself, and not for superstardom or to be the best trader in the whole world. Well, that's really impressive, man. That's that's quite the comeback. That must have been just such a blow at the time. Yeah, you've certainly bounced back really well. So, good job.
[00:21:49] I would like to ask you about and I think this is probably something which a lot of uh newer traders perhaps struggle with is how did you come to discover your best types of trading opportunities? Like, how did you identify an area to hone in on? Yeah, so the way that I backtest is not the same as how people think when they review lots of data and
[00:22:19] you know, a lot of data entry and analysis of that in Excel. I mostly just take it day by day where I will focus on a niche. So, in this case, I was focusing on small caps, and then I would just take note on a notepad every day of like what fits my criteria, even though I didn't trade it, or if I did, then I would go back at the end of day and screenshot the 1-minute, 5-minute daily, and then I would just make sure that I noted the day that I ran and everything like that. And then over time, I just kind of
[00:22:51] discovered the patterns that I kept seeing every single day. And then once I recognized a pattern, I it was more about maximizing that pattern. Um and trying to fit it in terms of risk reward. So, I'm always looking for a three to one risk reward at least. And then if once I built that system, I was able to um make different calculators on Excel where I could figure out like if I enter here, if I risk here, and I take my
[00:23:22] profit here, then this is a good trade. And then I just would constantly go back every single day and apply that system to all the trades for since the very beginning or like a month back. And then eventually I started to figure out what's working for me and then how can I maximize these trades. And um a lot of it was in part due to Twitter. I was able to connect with a lot of different traders who were trading the a similar niche and we kind of built like a brotherhood
[00:23:53] where we had a small group of people on Discord where and we were just talking about our setups and trying to drill into them together. Some people were good at data, some people were good at reading the tape, some people were good at volume and stuff like that. We're collaborating. And eventually we just kind of figured out what works for each of us. And then unfortunately, we kind of all grew apart at this point. But during that time, there was a lot of growth cuz we could take in a lot of information, share a lot of books and resources. A lot of, you know, chat with traders podcast, which one's good. And
[00:24:24] then just discuss it as a team pretty much after hours and pre-market and helped a lot for me to develop personally. I really like that. You know, I get a bunch of emails from people asking me, you know, like who's a good mentor and, you know, what's a good course to buy and all that sort of thing. And I think what you just described there is probably better than all of that. Um just being able to collaborate with a couple other traders on a similar journey to you, you know, share ideas,
[00:24:55] bounce you know, different ideas off each other and and grow together. I think that can be massively helpful as it obviously was for you. Yeah, I think I definitely recommend finding people who are in a similar situation you. And you know, sometimes you can they all say like you can pick someone slightly better than you, someone slightly worse than you and then you can teach so you learn yourself and you can learn from the better trader and a lot of the people that I was friends with back then now they're really great traders today
[00:25:26] and it's cool seeing how everyone goes in different directions. But the friendship that we have is really strong and you know, even though they're in different places like sometimes we can talk about what what they've learned and what I've learned and just kind of share that moving forward. So we're kind of like growing together at the same time. Absolutely, yeah. Yeah. Brian, would you be able to actually talk through one setup in particular like your your most frequently traded setup, kind of your bread and butter
[00:25:57] go-to play? Okay. I love trading stocks that are trash pretty much with dilution. So most penny stocks in North America, I'm not sure about around the world, are relatively greedy companies that need money. Um so you can check on their burn rate of monthly for cash and a lot of times you'll know that they need capital very badly. So they'll start diluting and in order to
[00:26:30] give themselves a premium on that, they'll release some kind of bogus PR and get people excited. Sometimes they'll take advantage of um sector momentum. For example, I saw once it when cannabis was running, there was like this cigar company that just all of a sudden said they're doing like weed stuff or I saw No, I I it was this No, it was actually more ridiculous. It was a cigar company saying that they had blockchain technology. And their stock ran up like multiple days. And so you know
[00:27:01] whatever you know there's trash that they're manipulating and that they have dilution and they have a very you know, they need capital badly. Then you can anticipate there's going to be a supply demand imbalance. And so I look to take a contrarian approach to those by like countertrend trading. So I'll I'll try to scale into the front side of these moves. And then add into it as it starts confirming that's going to start fading and that they're going to start unloading supply. And usually I'll fade that in a mean
[00:27:31] reversion sort of style. So I just kind of in my style I have a systematic entry and then my exit would be based on what I consider the mean. So you can pick you can really pick anything as what you want for mean. Some people use VWAP, some people use moving averages, some people use um daily levels, etc. And then once you've determined that you just run that scenario over and over again. And it's really mostly about fundamentals and
[00:28:01] pattern recognition. It doesn't come around that often where it's just like a plus plus setup where they have fresh dilution that you know they're going to use a lot of times they um they run them up and they know shorts are interested so they'll start blowing through high of day constantly and just making people get squeezed. And occasionally there'll be a a haymaker type of situation where they're just going to run it up thousands of percentages and people are going to get mar- margin called and I know that situation cuz I've been in it.
[00:28:31] And um to me really trading is not really about like you have your pattern but and you want to maximize your pattern to have the maximum profit adding to winners, etc. But at the end of the day a lot of people who trade this particular strategy, they have no max losses, they have revenge trading, they have emotional trading, and then they end up losing tons of profits in just that one or two plays, and then they just get reset to zero, or they just can't trade anymore.
[00:29:03] Yeah, it's easy to get your face ripped off if your risk management's sloppy. Can you talk to why dilution is so important with this uh with this type of play you've described? Yeah, because in trading, if you just break it down to supply and demand, at some point, if you know there's overhead supply, it's going to cause the stock to just fade because um you know, there's no one else left to buy it. And a lot of times, these stocks are very broken. So, if you
[00:29:34] look at the daily charts, they're just down-trending for years and years and years, and you know that not only is there going to be supply from dilution, but there's also going to be people who have been bag-holding these stocks who want to get out for break even or just minimize their loss, or they just give up over time. And you know, just knowing that these companies are very toxic from their by their nature, it helps to identify that there's an edge there. And um one way you can kind of tell is that in the stocks I trade, a lot of the um
[00:30:06] people doing the deals in the background, the underwriters, for that dilution, you'll see the same names come up over and over again. And you can start to identify the like, hey, I've seen this guy dilute, and usually when they're doing it, they have a certain style, and so you can kind of figure out which ones are going to be really toxic to the shareholders, and which ones are actually going to be a little bit harder to trade. With these types of plays, are there any variables that contribute to
[00:30:39] a higher probability trade? Definitely, when you you want to see those broken charts where pretty much every time that it spikes up, it gives back most of its gains or that I like to I like to say like the cat's out of the bag where maybe the first time it ran it went super parabolic but now that it's faded back and mean reverted the next time it bounces well it some people call it a bounce short cuz it's bouncing up into
[00:31:09] the prior levels and once it bounces up you know, when people look at that they they understand that beforehand the setup failed so it's more likely to fail. It's not going to be that next unicorn stock so it helps um to discourage people from bidding it up to extreme levels and so there's an edge for short sellers where you kind of know that the sentiment is in your favor. So when you're trading these types of plays, how do you do so in a systematic
[00:31:40] way? Like what are some of the rules that you have in place that removes some of the you know, excessive need for decision-making to get you into these trades? On my Excel I have a calculator where I'll input different price points that I'm interested in. So it might be high day and then I have my price target of course and then I can calculate kind of where I want to enter for an optimal risk-reward where I'm not risking too tight but I'm
[00:32:12] also not risking too wide. I base my entries on trigger so I use a couple different indicators where I customize it myself to kind of fit the patterns and then once I get it once I get a signal it's pretty much just put the order out right away and the reason why I can trust it, why I have confidence is because I've back tested those signals over years of of trades just because I have all those screenshots that I saved
[00:32:44] and then I'll just bring up my chart and I'll input all my different indicators on it and then I'll just flip through them and I'll see like oh it worked here. Oh, it didn't work here. It worked here. And then I slowly just tuned it to the values that works for me. And that has been a big big big uh helping point for me in terms of system systematizing my entry and exit and just because because I'm back-testing it that way it's like I'm just gaining experience as I'm doing
[00:33:15] that and it builds that confidence for me to just hit the button. But I think the the main reason why everything works out in the end is because I'm really good at maximizing the moves. So, I'm a very I'm a very patient trader and like my win rate is very very low. It's like at this point 26% or so. Just want it per trade basis because I'm cutting a lot of starters. But whenever I win my average winner is like is around six. So, that means
[00:33:45] sometimes I'll have a 10 15 or whatever. And when you have such when when I emphasize risk reward and I take the edge away from just having a high win percentage it helps me feel more comfortable to just take the trades without any emotion. Cuz I know that I can be profitable with a very low win rate as long as my as long as my average winner is just exponentially greater than my average loser. And that's that's what's giving me the most edge is because I don't treat
[00:34:16] I don't look at a stock and say oh this is going to be the one that makes my year. I just look at it as a drop in the bucket as a series of trades. And every single trade if I if I lose then I lose and if I win then it's going to be a big one. And then over time I just know that from the math, from all the statistics about it, it it just LoneStockTrader has a really good blog on Twitter where he talks about how to make it impossible not to consistently make money. And
[00:34:47] a lot of it has to do with risk reward. So, I'm not concerned as much with win rate, and as long as I have a good risk, then I feel confident that I'll just keep growing and growing. We're definitely going to spend some time on this risk model of yours in just a moment. And I'm not sure if I maybe I didn't catch it, but how do you actually generate these systematic signals for where you Let's just focus on the entry for the moment. Um how do you actually generate these systematic signals for where to enter into these these types of plays?
[00:35:18] Right, yeah. So, it's pretty much just from It's It's from the indicators. So, I have custom indicators which I'm not going to share, but basically, if you if you throw on any indicator or you can throw on several indicators, really, on a chart and just go over every single stock that fits your criteria. So, every day as I'm writing these notes of all the tickers that I potentially want to trade, that's building a database of stocks that fit that criteria that I'm looking
[00:35:49] for. So, I know that in the future, as long as I have a large enough sample size of those trade, if I input the same indicator on those new trades, it's likely to work as well. And it doesn't have to work a lot of the time. It only has to work more than 50% of the time. So, that takes a lot of the burden away from me for finding like a super, super amazing entry. The way I did it really was just you think about what the average person learns when they're trading, right? So,
[00:36:21] I when I learned trading, a lot of people were using different indicators like RSI, MACD, simple moving averages, exponential, right? And so, what I did was I tuned indicators I know people use and I either tuned it to be slightly faster, more aggressive, or slower depending on situation. And in that way I'm kind of countering the average mentality. So, the average trader is going to look at something
[00:36:51] and I'm if I'm that much faster than them just by a just by a little bit I'm going to have an edge on that trade cuz I know what they're looking for. Would you say you're a lot more dependent on these indicators and custom indicators that you've developed as opposed to level two and reading the tape, etc.? Yeah, I don't I don't actually have to read the level two or anything when I'm trading because once I enter the trade, I set my stop and then that's it. To my price target,
[00:37:21] so you know, over time, of course, I've picked up things just from watching my screen and it does help in a lot of ways. Sometimes there's like this discretionary um approach that you can kind of input into the system systematized approach where you can identify where there might be a buyer or seller and you can prematurely exit the trade because you identify something. Um that does come into play sometimes, but overall, if I wanted to, I I don't
[00:37:52] have to look at it at all. Okay, that's interesting. Well, on that note, let's get into your risk model. Let's really dissect this. So, uh you use the concept of R. Um can you just briefly explain what is R for anyone who's unfamiliar with the the the subject? Yeah. R is just how much money you want to risk per trade if you lose. So, if you set your stop and you want to lose $100, you you to position size your share count so that once it reaches that
[00:38:23] level when you cut, you lose that exact amount of money that you chose, um give or take slippage and whatnot. But, this helps to normalize your trade outcome so that every single time you lose, you know how much your average loser will be. So that you can focus on how much your average winner is going to be. And a lot of times, people choose a safe number such as 1% of your overall account. Um in my case, I couldn't choose 1% because if you're trading for PDT and you have a
[00:38:55] $25,000 account, you risk 1%. It'll be easy to fall below, so you have to choose a slightly lower number. Sometimes, you have to kind of The The trick that I tell people is that what you What you do is if you're in that situation, is you you make a number out of thin air, like 10,000, and you take 1% of that. And then you you grow that number. So, in terms of R, I just You want to lose a certain amount of money per trade
[00:39:25] and keep it normal. That's That's about it for R. So, how do you measure unit if uh yourself nowadays? Like, is that based on a percentage of your account, or how does that work? Well, initially, I was compounding my account. So, every single day, I would take one per So, if I had $10,000 as my um imaginary like account value, I took 1% of that. Then, if I made a profit or loss on the next day, I would just take 1% of that number, so it would go up or down.
[00:39:57] And then, eventually, I got to the point where I learned that um initially from blowing up, like my compound grew too large for my account size, and it was just getting really ridiculous in terms of slippage and everything. And that And because when you have a high risk reward, like if you have three to six average winner, it's very easy to start skipping R's like in a natural way. So, like if you're risking $1,000, sometimes the next job might go to like 1,200,
[00:40:28] 1,500. And then on top of that, I was winning some trades where I average down, and so I was making a lot more, and then I continued to take my R percent of the account from those gains that were outsized, so they would increase the R way too much way too dramatically. So, I learned that what you have to do is you compound your account until a number that you feel is uncomfortable, but you want to be at. So, for a lot of people, you just pick a whole number. $100, $500, $1,000.
[00:41:00] And then you just work towards that with your compound. And then eventually what I call is it I call it a freeze. So, you you freeze at that point. And then you give yourself a good amount of time, like a month, two months, three months. And once you get used to that level, I just bump it up to the next logical level. If you go from 1,000, go to 1,100, 1,200. Or you can go up whatever increments you want, whatever feels good to you. I think compounding works really well in the beginning, just so that as you're
[00:41:32] growing, as you're learning, you have like a real-time reflection of how of your performance, and you're also scaling your risk down when you're losing, but you're also scaling your risk up when you're winning, and so it makes it easier to get to your goal. And then once you get to your goal, a lot of times you don't really need to push it that much, cuz you have to get used to seeing the numbers. You have to get used to seeing how much you make, how much you lose, and really like make that part of your identity. And one of my good friends is a
[00:42:02] he works for a fund, and he's a manager there. He's been trading for 20 years, and he told me that you have to let your you have to see your bank account, you have to see the gains, and you have to feel like you deserve it. Cuz a lot of times when I was growing, I was like, "Oh man, this is a lot of money for me." Or that's a lot of a lot of money to lose, and I was uncomfortable with it, but I kept growing despite that. And that's what caused me to have those emotional issues where I was revenge trading and whatnot. So like, I learned to just find the level that you're comfortable
[00:42:34] trading for a while, and then once you feel like you've accepted that as your new that's your new paycheck, that's your new life, you know, everything like that, that's when you can move on to the next level. So that's what I've been doing. So do you trade the same dollar value of risk on each trade? You know, I know some traders when they they feel like they see something which is a good opportunity, they might hit that a little harder. How do you treat that type of scenario? Yeah, if if there's a setup that I'm
[00:43:04] really confident, my A+ setup, then I will I will double down on it. Um I'm not sure how much I want to push it, but for the moment, I've been going two x size on that. But for the most of trades I I do keep it the same because I find that when you see a lesser setup, and you say, "Hey, I'm going to risk less money on it." When you win, you're not going to feel that great about it when you win. And when you lose, sometimes
[00:43:35] I mean, sometimes you want to just add on those shares um or when you're winning, you sometimes you just want to add those shares on to get your normal size, but then you add it at a later stage, and it screws up your whole trade. Right. Or like, when you when you lose, it's just I don't know I don't know what you learn from it really. Like, it I would rather lose all everything that I'm risking, so that next when I review it, I can say, "Okay, this is just a trade I should just avoid in the future." Not trade it because I feel like it. And I feel like that will have a better impact on your bottom line cuz
[00:44:06] for me, I think the problem with a lot of traders when they're starting out is that they um they vary their size so much and they have very inconsistent results as with that because like if you let's say you you took a big loss and then you say, "Okay, the next day I'm going to size down." Then it will take you so much longer to make back that loss. And even if you trade well, you're going to have that emotional component of like "I'm down this much." Whereas like when I trade
[00:44:37] even if I take a black swan event, like if I lose 10R on a trade say I get halted or that it spiked past my risk or I got emotional, then with a 3:1 risk reward, I know I can make that back in three trades. At this point, I have 6:1 risk rewards so I can make it back in two trades. Even if in the worst case of scenarios, so for me, I'm not really concerned about losing. I'm more concerned about winning big. And so, adding to winners is good because you're not you're not um it's a lot more hesitant
[00:45:08] to go double size. So, you're going to really want that set up to be a great set up. And so like I don't find myself feeling tempted to always size into things. I just if I think it's a really good set up for me, then I'll double down on it and I'll just take that risk cuz worst case scenario, you'll take minus 2R, right? Minus 2R, you make that back in one trade. It's fine. Even if I get maxed out on the on the trade, like if I lose minus six, minus eight R, I'll make that back in two trades. So, but if I win, sometimes I'll make 12
[00:45:40] and then in some cases I make like 20R on a trade, so I know that that's going to really set me ahead cuz if you make 20R, then that basically means that the next 20 trades you take, if you if you lose 1R every time, you could lose 20 times just to wipe out that gain. So, for me, it's just about pulling ahead and keeping myself ahead and just normalizing every single trade as much as I can. It's just a drop in a bucket in a series for me. Right. So, you're not really someone who's going to put on like a smaller starter position with the intention of
[00:46:13] adding to your full R size, you know, if it starts to play out. That's what that that is what I do. I actually Okay. in really small. So, in my system what I have is basically I have a starter position. So, it's like a aggressive signal that is very iffy. I mean, in terms of it's not always going to work, but I I want it to work very quickly. And if it does confirm in my price action, then it will I also have a second secondary signal that says, "Okay, now
[00:46:44] you can go full size." And then I also have another signal that tells me like, "Okay, add to this winner." Cuz I'm I'm more or less like trading the trend. Um I'm kind of like a mean reversion type of trader setup. So, as long as it starts to work for me, I can keep adding into it and lowering my risk. And that's what really helps you get that really great risk reward because what I learned is that if you put a starter on and you cut it for like 0.5 R or something like that,
[00:47:14] you're not going to really care about that position cuz you know that when you win, you're going to make so much more. And so, once I put my feeler into the into the trade, I'm a lot more zoned in, more focused. And I can read it a lot better. But, it's not enough I'm not sizing enough where I get emotional about the setup if it goes against me. I just It's whatever. I just cut it. When you're using this type of risk model, I just want to ask you about stops and and taking small losses here. If you see something in the tape that you don't like, I know tape reading's
[00:47:46] not a big part of what you do, but if there's something you notice, uh are you willing to stop out on that trade before you reach that your initial stop level. In In the beginning, yes. So, when I when I first put on the trade, I know that since I'm trading counter trend, it's very dangerous. So, I do look for situations like that and I'm kind of I'm very rigid in how I approach the
[00:48:16] market. So, like at one point in time, I was like stop or target only. And so, I would consistently take the loss I intended to. And I would not take any partials on the way to my on to my profit target. And then eventually, I learned that you know, once you get more advanced, you start to recognize areas that you can optimize. So, you can sometimes see when a trade's going to go against you sooner. And I'm I'm pretty much developing that skill at the moment. Where I want to be able to to exit the trade for a smaller loss.
[00:48:48] And that a lot of times, that's not systematic at all. It's a lot of times, it's what I'm seeing. And I've just gained enough experience where I know where something just doesn't look right. And I can always just add it back on, so it's okay. But I think that that's kind of where I'm headed in my journey right now. Just figuring out where I can make these discretionary takes in my systematic entry and exit criteria to just boost my stats up a little bit more and protect my capital. A little earlier, you said that you have
[00:49:20] quite a low win rate. You know, it can be mid 20%. How many times are you going to try hitting one stock before admitting defeat? Well, ideally ideally, it's when you notice that the pattern is broken. So, for me, I know that there's a certain time of day where if it's you know, if I'm trading counter trend and it's continuing to push higher in the middle of the day, then there's obviously somebody willing to buy it and I'm more than
[00:49:51] likely wrong at that point. So, I just know that from my own experience, but I treat it more about my risk reward. So, when I was trading earlier with 3:1 risk reward, I would give myself two two attempts because I felt that if I couldn't nail it within two attempts, then I'm probably wrong anyway. But also, if you have a 3R win, but you lost 2R, then you're profitable. And the reason why I don't do 3R is because if I lost 3R and I and I won 3R,
[00:50:22] then I have fees and locates and everything like that. So, it's not truly break even and that I felt could have an emotional pull. So, pretty much as far as it scales with my risk reward. So, if I think that I'm going to make 6:1 on a trade, then I'll give myself five attempts or so in terms of minus 5R. And it's and it's a lot um I have a lot more attempts because I put on starter positions that where I can lose minus 0.5R or less. So,
[00:50:53] as long as that I keep it beneath that, it's fine. Cuz there is a relationship between win rate and risk reward where I was really really focused on growing my reward, but your risk reward is going to go lower. And as a result, because you're going to have to take tighter stops and you're going to take more risks adding to the winner and everything like that. And I know that if I I know that if I had a lower risk reward, I would have a higher win rate. But actually I actually prefer to lose more and win bigger because it helps me maximize each trade.
[00:51:25] And I feel that it's a lot easier to come back from losses. And the way to you know, really hone in on that is to back test your signals and just get them as good as possible so that you know that there's a pretty high probability when you get a trigger that's going to work. And um the reason why in my case, you know, that you might say like, "Oh, you know, if you're losing so much, then maybe your signals aren't so good. Well, it's because there's a lot of manipulation in this uh in penny stocks. So,
[00:51:55] a lot of times I can see that like with my signals, I can see that they're breaking in unnatural way. And I kind of just call that I call that divergence where it's more than likely going to pull back, but I have to just respect my risk. And I'm more focused on cutting the trade and adding it back later than trying to be convicted in my signals. So, I'm just really I'm willing to let trades fly by and just cut my risk um whenever I see something wrong. So, it end it
[00:52:27] ends up being where you know, because I'm very aggressive on my trades, I'm like I have a lot of FOMO. I'd rather be in the trade than miss it. And as a result, I get in a lot of situations where I I would just have to cut it because um I might have jumped the signal or my signal was just I'm using that slightly aggressive signal, which is not confirmation. My confirmation would be more like my second signal. So, if I at some point in the future, I might decide that pushing risk reward is not worth it. I think there is a diminishing return for sure. And I might level out, go back to
[00:52:59] an average risk reward with a like a like a four or five and increase my win rate just so that I have more gains. I think there is a way to test that statistically and I'm just right now I'm just pushing my limits and figuring out like how far I can go with this. Going into a trade, what's going to make you think that okay, on this particular situation right here, I have the potential for a three to one or I have the potential for uh six to one.
[00:53:29] What different things, what factors are going to make you think you have different uh risk to reward uh opportunities at hand? So, if it's my strategy is mean reversion, so a lot of times you'll the higher something goes from the mean, the more meat on the bone there is, which is always one good indicator. You know, there's no ATR in in small caps, so you kind of have to make your own, and I kind of
[00:54:00] build my own way to see the average true range of a stock based on the price and what percentage it's at, so I can break that down into different like levels, kind of kind of like a Fibonacci, I guess you could say, and based on that, you know, there I'll be able to risk the right amount to where if it reaches my target in terms of mean reversion, it'll be at least a three to one. I know one of the traders you interviewed, I think I shared on my Twitter the other day. I think it was uh
[00:54:31] Anthony, Anthony Royale? Yeah, I think he does a very similar thing to me, where you kind of revert it based on how much range there is, and you can kind of break it down to different percentages, so that I know that like I can risk a certain amount, and if it reaches my price target, it'll be a a good winner, and that's like it's apt for the price ranges. That's not too It's not too tight. It's not too wide. It's just like a systematic number I can use. Okay. Now, I think you kind of uh spoke about this a little bit
[00:55:02] earlier, but I'm just going to ask you to perhaps share a little more detail on it. Are you taking the trade off only when it hits your predetermined price target, or how do you begin to scale out of it? Yeah, I do. I I wait until my price target, and sometimes I'll miss it, sometimes I'll get a little greedy, and I've just developed ways to figure out, you know, it's very common sense. I mean, if if something is about to hit your price target, and it just barely
[00:55:33] misses, and then I have a a in my head where I I it's it's good enough, like it's it's close enough to my price target. I I don't have to be on the dot with it, and I'll just take it off there. Or you can notice certain trend reversal type situations or if I'm shorting it and I see higher lows and higher highs or if it'll cross above like a moving average or something like this, then I know the trend might be broken. And in those situations, I'll take it off.
[00:56:03] But more or less, I do wait for my price to work every time because you know, I'm in it to to revert to the mean. I'm not in it to take it profits on the way down. And I know that eventually that's um that style might not be the best for liquidity reasons and in a in a lot of ways uh to maximize these trades, you'll have to be recycling and um constantly taking it off and adding it back. And I'm working towards that, but as a trader, I kind of know my own limitations where I've had issues with entries and I've
[00:56:33] had issues with chasing, so I don't fully believe that I'm able to execute that strategy right now. So, what I'm doing is I'm just waiting to my price target, and that helps me just stay disciplined compared to constantly lowering my risk or constantly executing and having decision fatigue and putting myself in a position where I might not be fully like aware of what's happening in the trade cuz the more entries, the more exits you put in the trade, the more you know, factors play into your risk.
[00:57:04] And I'd rather just have my stop at a set location, so I know exactly where I need to get out, where I lose exactly what I'm willing to risk, and have my price target, which I know from back testing hits the majority of the time. So, for me, it's not a big deal because I'm back testing and I understand how my patterns play out and what are the odds really. Okay, so let's say you you're short a stock, it's had a massive run up, you've caught the the it's it's you know, it's drifting down,
[00:57:34] if it doesn't reach your price target or the mean value that you've determined by the end of the day, are you going to consider holding that position overnight to try and catch it maybe that price on the the second day? Currently, I don't. I know I might eventually get into it, but a lot of reasons why is because of the fees are really crazy. At some At some brokers, you pay seven times the short uh the locate cost overnight plus
[00:58:04] interest fees and a lot of times it's very ambiguous of what what those interest fees are. Okay. And so, there's a lot of unknown things and as well as when you hold overnight, there is different events that can happen or different gaps up and down and a lot of times it's just too much risk. I'd rather come to each day reset at the moment and just ready to execute. Sometimes like it doesn't hit your price target and then it will the next day just for no reason. And that's frustrating to see, but at the same time, I I can sleep fine at
[00:58:35] night because I don't have to worry about anything at all. All fresh. Yeah, that's a big part of it. Just a couple last questions, Brian. Moving away from risk here. Your or maybe it is tied in still, your monthly P&L has scaled as of late. You know, if we look at your stats, etc. What factors do you contribute to this? Just setting goals. So, from one after the after the year that I blew up, I pretty much dedicated the next year to
[00:59:07] treating this as a business and being very modest with my risk. So, that entire time I was scaled down way back from where I was and cuz I had no other choice. And as a result, I just set little milestones for myself like if I can work towards this risk level, then that'll be great for me. And it just happened that my dream risk level coincide with January 2020, where I finally hit it from compounding my account up and up and up. I finally hit the risk level that I wanted this entire time.
[00:59:39] And that's when I started to see like really good results. And after I after I did that, I started fulfilling other goals that I set. So, I said that I wanted to increase my average risk reward from three to four to five to six. And so, I was constantly backtesting systems and ways to do that. And eventually basically every month I've I've increased my R by one this year. And I'm starting to get to the point where I feel like it's getting redundant.
[01:00:10] But during that process, I was just constantly improving while the market was hot giving all of opportunities. But I feel even the even if the market wasn't as hot as it was, it was kind of more about myself cuz I'm really focused on how I can improve as a trader compared to anything else. So, when I set those long-term goals for myself and those milestones, it it always gave me something to work towards. And I always knew that eventually if I hit those points that I would just start achieving the results that I want.
[01:00:43] I just thought of something when you were talking there. Um you know how you said that you wanted to go from a three to one to a four to one risk reward for an average trade. When you're doing that, and I think this is something that maybe someone who's new to this concept or this way of thinking might do is if they're looking at something and they're saying, you know, I can get in here, I can put a stop here, that's one R. But it looks like I can realistically maybe only get two R uh reward out of
[01:01:15] this trade. They may just tighten that uh the risk on that trade a little bit so that the proportions are become three to one. Does that make sense? So, they pull in that stop. Um, can you just talk to that? Um, is that something you'll ever do? Is that something that you'd caution your traders from doing? Um, yeah, how do you think about that part of it? Yes, I would I would caution some traders because
[01:01:46] a lot of people look at the results that I post and they feel that it's very achievable, but it's a it's a lot of hard work to hold a stock. I mean, I'll I'm holding a stock for many hours and for some people their time horizons are just a couple minutes and let's say if you're if you're scalping for a couple seconds or minutes, if you put on such a tight risk, um, you can make a lot of money really quickly and if you hold you'll make a lot of money, too, but if you put on too tight a risk, you're going to constantly be stopped out. So,
[01:02:19] in those cases I wouldn't recommend that at all. I recommend it more for if you're if you're kind of trend trading where you're willing to sit through a lot of price action and so there's a lot of range like that you're not forcing the range. You're just taking advantage of the range. Like a lot of times when I end up covering, I'm covering towards the the bottom like 10% of the you know, the low of the day. So, it's very easy for me to capture most of the move and to capture that risk reward and constantly add to the winner as it's working, but you know, if you're on a
[01:02:50] short time horizon, it's going to be very, very difficult. The main way to achieve a good risk reward is to scale into a trade as it's working. And you know, you can't do that if you're only able to get in like very precise moments. And I also think that you have to consider the range of the stock. So, if a stock is trading at $5, then, you know, 10 cents of volatility is not not that much, but you know, if you're trading Tesla or something
[01:03:21] in the 500s, then you can't put on 10 cents of risk. Like you'll you'll get blown out in a second. And the main issue with that is once it breaches your risk, if you get in that fight or flight or freeze mode, and you end up being fearful cuz you don't want to lose as much money as you are in that moment, it's going to lead to you kind of blowing up your account or at least taking a big fat loss. And that could lead to a lot of emotional issues where, you know, you want to make it back and then it just starts to snowballing from there. So, you really have to make sure that
[01:03:51] your strategy kind of fits the model where you can add into winners cuz tight I don't have tight risk. Like I start out with a very wide risk, but I have a wide price target. And then I tighten the risk as it's working in my favor. I'm not putting on a tight risk and waiting. So, I think it's super dangerous for people if if you have the wrong strategy for that movement. Unless you have a really sick entry signal that has a very nice win rate. Then I've seen people doing tight risk like that, but personally, I
[01:04:23] don't I couldn't do that cuz it I think it'd be very emotional. Right. Brian, let me ask you one last question and then we'll call it a wrap. Three things you would go back and tell yourself on day one knowing what you know now. Mhm. Number one would be max loss. Just set it with your broker because you have to have that fail safe as a as if you're a retail trader and you're just responsible for yourself,
[01:04:55] you need that moment where you get rejected on the level two and you have to take a a breather and recognize this isn't healthy. Whereas like if you don't have that, you would you might just fight the stock all day and I think that's what causes most people to actually get killed. The other thing is I would focus on systematizing my entry and exit cuz I feel that you know, if you can create a very simple
[01:05:27] entry and exit trigger then you can apply that to back testing, you can apply that to just optimizing that and making it as good as it can be and that way you don't have to deal with those emotional components of being afraid or having random results and that way you can really measure where you're going and how you're going to improve. And then the third thing would be let's see.
[01:05:57] I would focus on risk reward and make sure that I normalize my risk. Keep a small small R at the beginning. And it's all about the process and it's less about the result cuz if you trade well, the results will follow and you need to give yourself enough time to make all the mistakes you made. And I would say if I if I think about it in terms of a if I think about the journey, at least
[01:06:27] how it was for me the first year you're going to flounder around and not know what you're doing and there's going to be situations that you didn't account for like sometimes the brokers have errors sometimes you know, there's all this type random things like your power goes out whatever. How are you going to react to that? You can't be sizing so big that you can't deal with an emergency situation and then in year two you might find something that you like something that you can stick to. Just stick to that and grow that consistently and then
[01:07:00] I think once you hit that third year it's just whatever it is. All my peers, all the people I grew up with in trading once they hit that third year where they were consistent and they start scaling up that's when a lot of them really hit their stride and you know, for all the pain that you go through, once you can get to that point it's all worth it. It's really all worth it. And the money that you lose now in in the meantime is just not going to be significant towards compared to what you you will make in the future as long as you just give yourself enough time to experience the
[01:07:31] market and ex- experience all the mistakes that you need to make so that you can learn and be your best trader. Excellent. Brian, well, it's been awesome to speak with you and it's really impressive to see what you've been able to achieve and uh I think it's maybe coming up 4 years that you've been trading full-time now. I think it's like three. Three? Okay, well, even better. Yeah, it's it's awesome, man, and and well done on your comeback. I think that was that was great that you could share that earlier on.
[01:08:02] Um I know you have a blog which you have some really detailed posts on and you also have a couple videos on YouTube um and you're quite active on Twitter. I know there's going to be some people listening who would love to check all of that out. Um do you want to share where to go? Yeah, just follow me on Twitter at Brian Lee Trades and this is it's the same on YouTube. And pretty much if you go to my Twitter, I'll have everything linked in the pin post so you should be able to find everything you need to find
[01:08:32] including the blogs which I highly recommend. Um I'm a lot better of a writer than I am a speaker so I think you'll really really enjoy those posts. A lot of people really love those. And I'm speaking from the heart there. I talk about a lot of things that led to my success today and I hope that that's something that you can use as a resource to grow on your own journey. Absolutely and I'll put those links in the show notes as per usual as well. Easy for anyone to find. Brian, absolutely awesome speaking with
[01:09:03] you and I'd love to do it again sometime. Thanks Aaron, I'd love that. All right, thanks a lot man. We'll call it a wrap. You've reached the end of this episode of Chat with Traders, but rest assured there are more episodes loaded with real market insight and zero hype on the way soon. So, to stay updated with each great new release, subscribe to the podcast in iTunes and we'd love it if you'd leave a rating and review. We'll catch you next time on Chat with Traders.
