# 305 · Julian Komar - When Story, Fundamentals, and Technicals Align
# source: YouTube auto-captions (en-orig) https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=hWx_d6gAhPQ

[00:00:00] Draw downs for me does not automatically mean I'm holding a stock and it's going against you or you know my go my whole portfolio is going against me. I'm a trader. I'm not an investor. So that means I can also lose a couple of times in a row. You know losing I don't know five times in a row, seven times in a row is absolutely normal for me. So trying out which works in the market. So and when I'm in a draw down it's not a big issue. I learned that over the years for me that I'm uh very or that I have
[00:00:33] enough conviction in my abilities as a trader and also in my trading system that I can make a comeback. What more frustrates me than sitting in a draw down to be honest is if I make mistakes. this is this is what really drives me nuts. Or for me it was more like you know learning how to deal with with with your emotions through the time you know distracting yourself not thinking about that having something outside of trading out out of your or outside of trading to
[00:01:04] distract yourself. And this is something you learn over time. there is not this one secret concept or whatever where I can say okay this is something you have to apply and then then you you can deal with draw downs it's more like okay you you suffer a lot of draw downs um you go through them you learn from them uh you find out more about yourself you know how are you dealing with that the trader destroys their own edge it's not a big issue to find a trading system that has an edge you know trend following gives
[00:01:36] you in basic edge and you can build rules around that and make money with the system. So, but it's it's a trader that has to execute the system. The trader itself is the biggest enemy to to become successful. It's mostly that you destroy the edge by making mistakes, emotional mistakes, markets, speculation, and risk. This is the Chat with Traders podcast.
[00:02:09] Hey, this is episode 305 on Chat with Traders. Thanks for tuning in. Tessa here with my co-host, dear friend, and awesome interviewer Ian Cox. Although I trade options and have added index features to the mix recently, my introduction to trading way back began with stocks. Stocks are really the backbone of how I think about trading. options are built on them as the underlying and equity index futures are ultimately tied to baskets of stocks. So
[00:02:40] for me, everything still comes back to stocks, stocks, stocks. So if you love trading stocks, this episode is for you because today Ian chats with Julian Comar, a seasoned German trader with nearly two decades of stock market experience. Growing up in Germany without a financial background, Julian became fascinated by stocks as a teenager, he moved past complex German trading products to concentrate on US
[00:03:11] equities, specializing in momentum and growth stocks on the daily time frame. He blends fundamentals, technicals, and story analysis to uncover opportunities that put him in the best position for high potential setups and writing powerful trends. As a disciplined breakout trader, he prioritizes risk control, market trends, and intuition gained through decades of experience. We've included more information about Julian in our show notes. So, without
[00:03:42] further ado, ladies and gentlemen, please allow me to introduce Julian Comar from Germany. >> Julian, um, I'd like to, uh, welcome you to Chat with Traders. >> Thank you very much for having me. Where where are you? You sound like you have a an accent. >> Yeah. Uh I'm very much in the north of Germany. So I'm living close to Hamburg uh in in Germany for my whole life. So I'm I'm originally from Germany and
[00:04:14] that's why you maybe hear the accent in my voice. So tell us a little bit about uh what was it like growing up in Germany and especially as it relates to your interest in the financial markets kind of how did you get exposed? >> I I I don't have any any comparison to other countries how it is to grow up there but uh >> um I can talk a little bit about my my own journey. So I was I was always interested in in finance and um you know
[00:04:46] I'm I'm not coming from a financial background and also my parents and where I grow grew up uh have no financial uh background. So but I got very interested um in financials and also in uh stocks when I was 16. So I'm 39 by the way. And um that was also the first time when I bought um a mutual fund very classical you know I walked into uh into a bank and said okay I want to uh invest some
[00:05:18] money and what what could I do and that was the first time when I got in contact with banks and also consultants financial consultants and I remember one thing and this is always uh yeah in in my mind I asked them uh after I bought the mutual funds I asked them, okay, you you will call me if these things go down. But uh guess what? They never ever called me. And that was also a very yeah a key event where where I learned, okay,
[00:05:49] I have to take care about uh myself. You know, at the time a lot of people got interested more in stocks. Um one of the biggest names at the time was uh Dutch Telecom, so uh communication company at the time. But then of course around the 2K, so around the 2000 crash etc. um all the Germans went away from everything what has to do with investing. But I still um or I I I was very interested in that because um I saw that always as a
[00:06:20] challenge and um I got more and more in the direction of stocks. In Germany we have a we have and we had a lot of different trading vehicles and I tried them out all to be honest. You know, I traded uh I traded uh CFDs at the time. I traded um uh something which I think only the Germans have. It is something like certificates. So you can buy a certificate and it it could also be a leverage certificate or a leverage
[00:06:52] option something like an option. And uh I also tried that out. And at the end I um yeah I I got into stocks and got more and more interested in stocks because uh I I was always fascinated by technology companies and in in general you know getting to know companies and uh trying to find out more about companies and um that brought me in the direction of stocks. Then I yeah traded mostly German stocks, European stocks and um later
[00:07:23] then I discovered the the US market um which uh I trade uh only so I only trade US stocks. >> Was the main thing that got you into stocks because you like the story behind the companies uh or I mean how did those other products go for you those German um trading products? uh was it difficult to connect with or they you know tell us a little bit. >> Yeah they they are very complicated. So um >> uh these certificates as an example you
[00:07:54] know they give you a lot of leverage but if you are an inexperienced trader you have a lot of ups and downs with that and it's complicated because they have very similar uh characteristics like options uh so you have something um you know like a strike price etc but they are not and they are not traded on a regular option uh option exchange and it was very very complicated. did and that's one of the reasons why I walked away from that and uh focused more on stocks and as you
[00:08:27] said you know I was very interested always in in the companies itself you know what are the companies doing what is their business model why are they successful and um I'm I'm you know I'm I'm coming from a from a technology background when when I was 16 I I got out of school so I I have no high school uh diploma or anything like that. Um so I got out of school when I was 16 and I got into a training ship. I started to be a media designer and um that was also
[00:09:00] the time when I got when I got uh connected to to a lot of technology topics. You know uh companies like Omega, Adobe and so on and so on. you know, people who are 30, 40 years old maybe know the stocks and also know the companies and um I always had some connections with them and that also brought me of course in the direction of stocks and more technology stocks and innovative companies because I always felt connected to them and I always got
[00:09:31] interested in okay what are they doing what is the story behind that what makes them successful and what are the products that they develop and after my training ship I got more and more also in the in the direction of product management and that's why I always had a connection also to what are companies doing you know what what is the product what makes the product successful what are people like about the product and this is something I use still today for for my stock trading you know I'm always
[00:10:01] analyzing the story behind the company I'm always analyzing the fundamentals behind the company I want to know why something is successful tool and um that always leads me in the direction of of finding high potential stocks. >> Uh how far down the the rabbit hole did you go uh with analyzing company fundamentals? Did you focus a lot on that? I mean were you were you into the technicals early on or kind of how did your early journey with that go? >> I I always go through uh three layers.
[00:10:33] So technicals is always the most important for me. Um there is one reason and very simple reason that the stock exchange uh trades the future not not the present right so and the technicals itself and when I speak about technicals it's about relative strength so how performs a stock in comparison with the indices um how is the the accumulation of a stock uh when you watch the volume or when you watch uh other indicators and um you know the technicals always
[00:11:04] show me what are the big institutions is doing and this is a first layer. I'm always looking at that to make sure that institutions are accumulating the company and have a high demand for that. So and when the chart and the technicals appeal to me and when I say okay this is something which which could be interesting I want to find out what are the institutions seeing that I am not seeing right now and then I'm go to go to the next layer the fundamentals. So in fundamentals for me means always
[00:11:35] growth. I want I I want to know how is the company growing in sales and if the company is profitable also in EPS you know a company which is growing fast like 20% 30% 40% uh in sales year over year that that is catching my attention that is something where I go to the next layer to the story because I want to find out what drives the sales you know what is the story behind the
[00:12:06] Why are people buying the stock and the products of uh the company itself? So, and I'm always going through these tra three layers. But, and this this is something I found out over the years in my trading career. There are different times in the stock market and there are also different types of stocks in the uh in the stock market and not not in every yeah not in every stock market cycle the same type of stock attracts uh the big money from institutions. So there are
[00:12:38] some times where you know more typical cancelling stocks so that means stocks that have big earnings growth big sales growth uh big future estimates etc that um there are times when when these type of stocks are in demand and uh people want to buy them. There are other times where what I call sales growers are in demand. So companies usually having only a big sales growth and reinvesting all their profits into uh into the sales
[00:13:09] growth. So into growing market share and into growing uh the sales of the company. And there are other times where more story stocks exploding uh in the market. Uh sometimes companies that have no sales at all um and also no EPS at all. And I I'm trading all these three types of stocks, but I'm always going through these three different types of layers to find out what are investors and institutions seeing that I don't see. You know, it's a little bit like a
[00:13:40] detective game or it's a little bit like a big puzzle. And this is what I enjoy. You know, I spend I would say 90% of my time doing research uh and try to find some some great stocks in the market. Mhm. So, um can you give us an example of these different types of markets that you encountered uh um throughout your history and share with us, you know, what kind some examples of the stocks that highlighted that particular time period. >> Yeah, sure. I mean, if if you think
[00:14:10] about Nvidia for example, right? And Nvidia was always a company which uh which came from a total different business. they transformed their business in the last couple of years became very successful with their products. Uh so with these uh with the GPUs for AI data models etc. they had an enormous uh growth in EPS so in earnings per share and also in sales in the last couple of years. So this is a typical cancelling stock right and um there are
[00:14:42] market periods like uh 2020 or uh even even before 2020 you know 2017 2018 where a lot of uh or where Nvidia was was uh very or heavy in demand in the stock market. So this is one one one type of a typical cancellum stock that I traded or Tesla is also one of them. So mostly mostly companies that you know as mega cap companies or also as large cap companies today and sales growers you know sales growers are
[00:15:14] companies that are mostly a little bit younger. So especially in the yeah let's say first five years uh after their IPO because they they are reinvesting all their profits into growing market share and into uh growing sales. So one of one one good example from the past I remember is uh Zscaler, Crowd Strike uh so cyber security companies that you know uh Koopa is also one of them which came up in my mind that's not listed
[00:15:45] anymore. So companies uh you know software companies that that grew extremely fast but were not profitable at the time. And um yeah and story stocks you know I'm I'm trading this year a lot of story stocks. Um one one of the story stocks that comes up in my mind is Eva Eva ticker symbol AE Va um is a LAD stock you know and um I discovered that very early this year it's not a pure story stock to be honest because they also have a big sales growth and some EPS growth not so big
[00:16:18] but uh huge sales growth and um the first thing what what caught my attention with AVA was really um the technicals you you know, it made a big move. It created a wonderful high tide flag pattern and I saw that in in the charts and then I got deeper into the stock and tried to find out okay why is the stock exploding so much on the upside and uh then I found out uh about their lighter technology. Then I
[00:16:48] got deeper into that and uh I thought about okay what are application areas of lighter technology and then you automatically come to areas that are you know future big growth areas like robotics like self-driving cars like drones etc. All of them need lighter technology. So, and then you look at sister stocks like our which also had a big move this year and um then you find out okay the sister stocks are doing good as well. So, and um then you
[00:17:20] discover a stock like that and then you you you enter it. Um I'm I'm mostly breakout trader. >> How important is the sister stocks in helping you determine uh whether to get in on the on the main stock? I mean is that is that a very good sign when the sister stocks are also moving in that direction? Do you do you look for other companies uh to trade as well? >> Absolutely. You always want to stack the odds um on each other, right? You want to increase the odds to make a good
[00:17:52] trade and it starts with a market. If you have the market on your side, that's great. If you has if you have the sector of theme on your side, it's great. If you have the sister stocks on your side, it's great as well. I always, you know, I always say to to people, you know, you don't want to trade a lonely survivor. A lonely survivor is a stock, you know, where all the sister stocks are going down, but only one stock is moving higher. Sooner or later, it will follow the other sister stocks. But if you have um if you have a stock and you see that multiple stocks from the same theme and
[00:18:25] and sister stocks are setting up in the same way and moving higher, it increases the odds dramatically to make a good trade. And um you always want to do you always want to look at that. So I don't or I rarely trade a stock uh which is moving higher but the sister stocks are not moving higher. >> So so so how do you determine who's the leader of the pack of that group uh and focus in on that? Is it just looking at market cap size or what? >> No, no, no. Market cap has nothing to do
[00:18:56] with that in my opinion and also my experience. It's more relative strands. So what is the fastest mover? What are uh institutions accumulating the most? You can see that in the volume. If you see big spikes in the volume um and you see a big price move um you can assume that there is a heavy accumulation going on and very often you can see that. So if you if you if you look for example at AVA and our so so two lighter companies
[00:19:27] ourstar was was moving higher but not so strong. AVA was leader because it was already broken out of their uh out of their consolidation. It was moving higher on high volume etc. It also had better fundamentals at the time. And um so technical leadership is very important to find out what is the leader. And the second thing and this is more difficult to be honest is to find out okay what could be a leader from the fundamental and product side. And this is very difficult to be honest. Um, from
[00:19:59] the fundamental side, it's easier because you have some companies that are growing faster in sales or maybe have better EPS numbers, but it always should go hand inhand with the price. But from the product perspective, it's it's it's almost impossible because, you know, I'm not a specialist of LA technology or I don't know uh semiconductors or whatever. um I can only try to find out something in interviews on YouTube or when I listen to um conference calls or something like that. But it's very hard
[00:20:31] to find that out. So technicals is really the most important uh most important way to find the leader um in in stocks. Yeah. >> Uhhuh. I see. So so the leader shows itself just through the technicals. Um, but then couldn't that mean that uh maybe a super small micro cap could show up uh as a quote the leader because it's having interesting technical um you know uh chart patterns. Uh but it's I mean how do you determine that? I mean do you
[00:21:02] have a minimum dollar volume size per day to say okay well this is sufficiently big enough because uh to where the institutions can can get in on this stock. >> Yeah. Yeah. I I I definitely have thresholds. So um it really depends a little bit on the theme itself and and also on on the stock um you know not not automatically the stock with the highest market cap is the leader. Very often you find younger companies that have you know more innovative technology etc that that become the leader. But one thing
[00:21:34] what you want to make sure is that the stock has institutional quality. So I I call that institutional quality and that means it has enough volume for for institutions to get on board. So my threshold it really depends a little bit on the theme right because some themes are not mature enough and then you have micro caps and nano cap stocks but other other themes are more mature and then I want to see 20 million or maybe a hundred million US traded uh volume per
[00:22:05] day. So if you if you multip multiply the price with the average volume, then you have the dollar volume or turnover in a day. When you have a very yeah, let's say a young a very young theme like drones, you you don't have the the big drone company right now. There are a lot of very small Yeah, let's call them startups with um you know 300 million market cap or something like that. Then I also go down to let's say five or 10
[00:22:38] million US traded volume per day. But everything below that is is hard to trade to be honest. And when it comes to price of course you know I prefer higher price stocks something like 1020 US but in in some of uh in some themes you you sometimes have a leader that only trades at $4 US and that's also fine to me. So for me the liquidity is the more important aspect when it comes to to finding good stocks. Um but it's not automatically the the the stock with the
[00:23:10] highest liquidity or or market cap that is the leader because over time some stocks also I don't want to call that get overowned but you know they they they are not the leaders anymore but they have a lot of market cap and institutions are just buying them because they need a very high liquidity but then other companies are catching up. We see that right now for example in cyber security stocks you know crowdstrike is not the leader anymore for me it's more rubber rig or maybe
[00:23:40] zscaler um they they are catching up right now with newer technology with newer products and they become more and more and more liquid over time while the big ones are rather slow movers and they have older technologies you know money is always rotating in the stock market >> um so that's why why I'm also focusing on lower cap stocks. >> Uhhuh. And so while you're looking at the big uh the big whales, are you keeping an eye on all the small uh companies in that sector uh and
[00:24:12] patiently waiting for them to what catch up? Do you have a certain threshold that say okay it looks like uh you know these big cap stocks are not performing as well. So and I see these younger companies are now having a bit larger relative strength um than in the past. And is that are those the the metrics that trigger you from jumping in from one company to the other or are you also heavily dependent and looking at the fundamentals and what's going on in the news and the you know quarterly earnings
[00:24:44] that kind of thing? >> There are different dimensions on on this question. So um maybe maybe let's start with how I'm discovering companies. You know I'm I'm a bottomup trader. So that means I'm running through my scans um at least once a week. Uh sometimes also multiple uh times a week, but mostly on Fridays I'm doing the big screening stock uh screening stocks routine. So and I I see what the market delivers in in the
[00:25:16] screeners. What are the stocks that match criteria and I have different screeners. So more technical screeners, more fundamental screeners and I see what is coming up and when I see that you know multiple stocks from the same theme or sector popping up in my scans then I'm getting more interested in that and try to find out what could be a leader. And inside these scans that I'm running I have some some basic criteria when it comes to relative strength as an example. you know I I um I run the most
[00:25:49] scans in in market search um so the software from from IBD I also use some investor B investor business daily criteria in these scans like the RS ratings so they they are rating all the stocks that they are tracking um by the relative strength and this is one of the thresholds you know I'm not looking at stocks with a relative strength rating below 90 so that means it outperforms 90% % of all the other stocks tracked by investors business daily. So this is a
[00:26:21] basic criteria. >> Were were you using um this uh format and when you were in the market like 20 years ago? I mean because you've been in a long time and how did how did this evolve over time? >> Yeah, definitely not. So I learned a lot in in in the last 20 years uh and I learned more and more and more uh to find out my my my uh my own approach. um how how did it evolved? Um I I started you know as I said you know I started
[00:26:52] mostly uh with German stocks and then European stocks. So I I've I found I found some traders over the time where I learned a lot from you know I learned from one guy I learned risk management from the other guy I learned screenings for stocks story analysis and and fundamentals etc. And you know, I always found out, okay, what works for me? How can I come closer to the biggest winners in the stock market to find them? And um
[00:27:22] I learned I learned almost everything from other traders over the time. And I developed my own scans, you know, because I I uh did a lot of research about my own scans and about the companies that I'm trading. And I always try to find out okay how can I come closer to the biggest winners uh in the stock market. It's a big evolution uh process over time. You always learn something. You you get feedback from the market or you learn something from another trader and then you see okay is
[00:27:52] it working with my trading approach. Is it also compatible with me with my personality? And then you test that and you find it out. Um and if the answer is yes then I'm I'm using that also in future you know I'm I'm trading differently than 3 years before and I'm also trading totally differently than 20 years before you know I think trading is is an ongoing journey and you always learn something new which you can include into your trading and that makes it also a lot of fun and uh a lot of
[00:28:25] enjoyable for me. Mhm. How did uh 2008 um how was 2008 for you and what were you trading back then? >> There were 2007208 was a financial crisis, right? >> Mhm. Um yeah, I I can remember I I I always remember one thing and that was shorting bank stocks >> but but to be honest you know I was more in in yeah inexperienced trader at at
[00:28:56] the time. So um 2007208 um I was trading Europe European stocks. I can remember that I shorted the Netherlands stocks BAM group uh was it and it it was moving down very very fast and I learn I learned a lot about bare markets of course um and I I remember one thing very very good and because I I recently repeated that also and told that to other traders uh when we had the big correction uh this year
[00:29:28] volatility is something which is or can be extreme in down moves you know, you can wake up one day and and you see the index is down 10%. You know, and if you have a lot of exposure during this time on the long side, as an example, you know, um you you can lose a lot of money. So, and this is what I learned in in the low in the most bare markets. Um but, you know, I'm not a long-term investor, so don't confuse that. You know, I'm not a typical Cancelum guy. So
[00:29:59] my my typical holding period is weeks to months. You know, I'm I'm trading more position trades and swing trades when when when uh when I'm in a bare market or when the market is in a bare market, I'm mostly in cash or I'm short. So, and this is what I learned also from all the bare markets. Doesn't matter if it's 2007 with with financial crisis or another bare market. It's the best way to be in cash or to be short. I mostly short um sector ETFs, indices or
[00:30:32] commodities, sometimes also Bitcoin, but uh rarely rarely uh stocks to be honest because there is always these crazy supermarket mentality in the stock market. People are always buying stocks when they when they go down and you have a lot of choppiness in individual stocks. And on the other side, I'm also not shorting individual stocks a lot because um you can have a buyout and this thing gaps brutally against you and uh you you
[00:31:04] can suffer big losses. So I'm mostly in cash. That's what I learned from from the last bare markets. I'm mostly in cash or trade yeah zector ETFs or indices on on the short side. Um so uh in one of the quotes that you have in uh in the uh paper that you shared with us you said that uh you like to focus on the ability to sit through draw downs without stress. So how do you how do you do that focus uh in draw downs without stress is
[00:31:37] mostly being in cash to be honest. So I mean draw downs drawowns are normal periods right? So if if or let's say it different. So draw downs for me does not automatically mean I'm holding a stock and it's going against you or you know my go my whole portfolio is going against me. I'm a trader. I'm not an investor. So that means I can also lose a couple of times in a row. You know losing I don't know five times in a row, seven times in a row is absolutely
[00:32:07] normal for me. So trying out which works in the market. So, and when I'm in a draw down, it's not a big issue. I learned that over the years for me that I'm uh very or that I have enough conviction in my abilities as a trader and also in my trading system. Um that uh I I can make a comeback. So, what what more frustrates me than sitting in a draw down to be honest is if I make mistakes. This is this is what really drives me nuts. you know I have not a
[00:32:40] big problem uh to to sit in a draw down um and and uh come back after a time sometimes you know sometimes I'm sitting couple of weeks or even three months in a draw down so draw downs by the way means also you're sitting in a in a sideways period you where your equity curve is always going up and down and up and down and then you hit one of one big winner or two big winners and then you are uh coming back and your equity curve is printing a new high. So you know for me it is more like
[00:33:12] or for me it was more like you know learning how to deal with with with your emotions through the time you know distracting yourself not thinking about that having something outside of trading out out of your or outside of trading to distract yourself. And this is something you learn over time. there is not this one secret concept or whatever where I can say okay this is something you have to apply and then then you you can deal with draw downs it's more like okay you you suffer a lot of draw downs um you go
[00:33:44] through them you learn from them uh you find out more about yourself you know how are you dealing with that and um today it's absolutely normal for me >> yeah so um share with us if you can um during what time period uh did you have your worst draw downs and uh what did you learn from that process? >> Um my worst draw down was this year to be honest. Um my worst draw down was the January 27 this year where we have this
[00:34:16] deep uh seek event. Um I was heavily invested in data center stocks and then all of a sudden uh almost everything uh opened with a gap down of uh 20%. So and uh I I was I was really I remember the day very good. So I I was not very shocked at the beginning because you know I'm I'm I'm I'm waking up here German time. So that means I have the pre-market um very
[00:34:48] early here in Germany and I woke up this morning and everything was down seven or 9% in pre-market and I said to myself yeah okay let's see let's see what will happen and then when we came closer to the opening of the session everything went down 15 17 20% you know I held all these stocks at the time verive salastica and so on and um then the market opened a lot of stocks opened down 20% then they bounced a little bit and then I started to to sell my my positions uh one after one and on the
[00:35:21] day I was down 17%. So that that was >> that was my my worst draw down ever >> and um you know personally of course you know it feels terrible to be honest but it's not it's not the money or it's not the draw down itself which feels terrible it's more like I made a mistake that is one one point and I will come to that in a second but the other side you know the other the other emotion that came up in me was I lost
[00:35:54] You know that that's what I always say. You know I I lost a championship. I lost the championship against myself. You know this is your I was exactly in the right stocks. I was trading yeah in my in my performance zone at the time and then all of a sudden there this event came and really fel felt like okay I lost I lost the championship. So that was a feeling and then a couple of days later I was trading again because uh you know I I was uh or I saw some some
[00:36:25] opportunities. So and the mistake that I did was um I was too heavy involved in the same type of stock but not all of these stocks were coming from the same sector or industry group. you know, I traded nuclear energy stocks at the time, data center stocks, semiconductor stocks, but they all were connected to the same theme. So, and um that was a big mistake. I learned from that. I um today I I don't trade uh more than three stocks at the same time from the same
[00:36:56] theme, industry, group or sector. And um yeah, that that was definitely a big learning opportunity. Again, you know, this is the feedback the market gives you and you have to take this feedback and you have to sit down, do your home homework, get confidence again and then uh come back. Yeah. >> Mhm. Interesting that you had been in the market for over 20 years and only very recently uh discovered this uh this issue and then made adjustments.
[00:37:27] I I would say I would say you know I don't um I I I have been in a lot of different situations where the market really hard or get hard against me. I have been in in in dramatically uh gap downs also against me but there was one thing which I never discovered in the past and that was you know that my whole portfolio was gapping against me. You know I have been in in situations like the flash crash. I have been in situations like Fukushima. I have been in several situations. I have been in a
[00:37:59] in a gap down 50% against me uh with Krato technology which which cames up in my mind on earnings. I have been in a stock which was moving down 70% intraday and I got stopped out at the right time but uh I never experienced a situation where my whole portfolio was gapping down you know everything in my portfolio was gapping down. I never experienced like like that when you have you know when when you have a situation like Fukushima or uh something like that you
[00:38:29] have some stocks that make bigger gap downs against you and some stocks are not making bigger gap downs against you. So, but I have never been in a situation where where almost everything what I own get so hard against me. Uh, and that that may or that that was really a unique situation for me and something new to learn, right? >> I I noticed on the documents that uh you sent us that uh you diversified in quite a uh quite a few areas including Bitcoin and gold and silver. Um was that an
[00:39:03] after effect of of your experience earlier this year? Um no as the effect of diversifying or had you been in those assets for quite some time? >> No. No. Um again, so I'm usually holding stocks or also commodities uh more weeks to months. You know, winners I hold a couple of weeks to maybe three months, four months, something like that. You know, losers I sell within days. So, and um last year um it was a great market for gold to be honest. We had big trends
[00:39:34] in gold and that was one of the reasons why I traded gold. you know, it was it was a leading market for me and I was able to place very good riskreward ratio bets uh you know when when you can when you can put in a stop-loss of 1% in gold um then you can trade a big position size and gold also I would not call it diversification because I'm not diversifying my portfolio to be honest it's more like uh you know there is a great market which is on the move where we have momentum and uh it can move a
[00:40:06] little bit more in independently from from the stock market. That's why I sometimes trade also commodities. Yeah, Bitcoin is also something I'm trading um when it offers the right setup. You know, the setups that I'm trading, they appear in all of different markets. There are some markets which I don't trade. So, forex is one of them, you know, because they are moving a little bit differently. But um Bitcoin, gold, um sometimes oil, especially on the downside. I personally like to trade uh
[00:40:37] oil more on the downside. Um they they can sometimes set up in the right way and then I'm trading them, but I'm never looking at my portfolio in case of diversification, something like that. >> So let's talk about the setup. What what do you look for exactly in the setup and what triggers you because in your in those documents you sent us? Um it looks like you can go long periods of time just uh during your draw downs or flat performance waiting for the right time to go in big and you mentioned um in
[00:41:09] these documents that uh you'll go you'll use margin to so when when do you do that? What exactly triggers that action? Yeah, first of all, you know, I'm I'm I'm running my own market trend model. That's important. I also not invented that by myself. You know, I tweaked that, but I also learned that from another trader. This is very important to find out, you know, when do I have an edge in the market and when not. So, and it's a very simple uh trend model
[00:41:41] based on moving averages. And when I see a good trend in the stock market, so when my market trend model switches to green, when I see that there are a lot of stocks reaching new highs and we have a higher number of stocks above the MA200, that's a time when I'm becoming interested in trading stocks. So, and then what I'm basically looking for is a stock with a high momentum uh creating a good pattern. So, and what what are the patterns that I'm trading?
[00:42:12] It's it's very basic stuff, right? I'm I'm trading uh flag patterns. I'm trading tight consolidations in a chart. When a stock, you know, when when a stock makes a big move like 50 or 70% in a short period of time and then it get gets very tight and starts to consolidate around the exponential moving average 8 or exponential moving average 21 that I use. um and builds a very tight consolidation that I'm getting really interested in
[00:42:44] that because you know I'm I'm I'm usually not trading what I call the first initial momentum move. So the first rally of 50 to 70%. What what I would like to see is that the stock pulls back a little bit that institutions are supporting now the stock around key moving averages and when the setup's right when when the thing is really really tight and compressed in price and then breaks out on the upside that is usually uh the pattern that I trade and that can be in
[00:43:14] a larger pattern like a coin handle for example that could be uh a shorter uh pattern like a flag pattern where this price is only constantly dating maybe uh 3 weeks and um then I'm getting in. But you know sometimes also when I thought about 2020 uh 2024 SMCI as an example you know the stock made big move a big rally and then went sideways I think for a couple of months and then broke out from such a base um and um then I get
[00:43:46] into that. So I'm a breakout trader. 90% of my trades are breakouts from uh classical chart patterns. >> Um in the documents he shared with us uh you say in there poor execution destroys the inherent edge that a trading strategy provides. So um what kind of execution are we talking about? I mean the difference between the bid and the ask or just u the price of the day. I mean how do we what do we know about an
[00:44:16] execute? what's a good execution and what's a bad one. >> Yeah. No, it's it's not bid or uh bit or ask prices. So So I'm not not so sure term. Um you know when I I always say you know the trader destroys their own edge. It's not a big issue to find a trading system that has an edge. You know trend following it gives you a basic edge and you can build rules around that and make money with the system. So, but it's it's the trader
[00:44:47] that has to execute the system. So, and and the trader itself is is the biggest enemy between uh or the the biggest enemy to to become successful. It's mostly that you destroy the edge by making mistakes, emotional mistakes. Um I I give you one example, right? I think last week I I opened a trade in in a stock called I OD. It was a very strong day on on that day and I bought uh not
[00:45:18] only this stock but I bought also a couple of other stocks. So and in hindsight when I did an analysis of the trade and and asked myself okay was it now a really good trade or not then I came very quickly to the conclusion no it was not a great trade it's it was not meeting 100% of my criteria it was a mistake. So and this is what I mean by bad execution. You know when when when you are trading you are always influenced by emotions by other things
[00:45:48] that going around and you are coming very quickly out of your performance zone or what I call the performance zone you know and then you start to do mistakes. You you trade mediocre setups. you get sloppy in your stock selection especially if you have a very good run um uh in in in your in your trading and this is what I mean by bad execution and the trader itself destroys the edge no one else is destroying the edge it's always that you have to look at your own
[00:46:20] shoes and ask yourself okay why I'm performing not as I would like or as I think I could do and um then you have to do the homework and find out how can you execute your trades or your trading strategy in a better way that you are you know meeting more your rules and your criteria. I'm not a robot you know I'm a human >> and I make mistakes and I will always make mistakes in trading and I have no big problem with that because >> the the monetary impact of my mistakes
[00:46:51] is very limited and I can undo mistakes very quickly so by closing position or whatever. But of course I also know traders who make mistakes and you know it cost a lot of uh money because they are not able to close the trades uh very quickly where where they are starting to lose a lot of money. >> So so then um the self-sabotage is that could we call it that um of what being sucked into a trade uh because of >> what overconfidence of how you did in
[00:47:23] the past and then and oh this time it's different and the ego takes over. I mean what what are the qual what what happens there? >> Yeah, absolutely. It's it's self-sabotaging. You know, I I know that from from my own. It's to be honest, the toughest periods in my trading is not a draw down. It's when I'm performing good. This is the toughest periods for me because I have to sit really down, do my mental preparation every day, and really try to focus on not becoming
[00:47:53] overconfident. Because when I had a very good run, like this this May as an example, um, and when I had a very good run, I start sometimes to take more mediocre setups. And then you start to come into a draw down or you you you lose multiple times in a row because these setups are not working the same way. And this is something where you always have to sit down, focus, manage yourself so that that you are not getting sloppy in your
[00:48:25] in your stock selection and try always to try always to be yeah 100 or 110% focused on your trading. And to be honest, this is really really hard work. to do that over a long period of time, you know, weeks and months is really really hard. And this is this is, you know, why why I and also a lot of other traders always say, you know, trading is a mental game. It's 90% a mental game because um you always have to to put so
[00:48:58] much energy in managing yourself, in managing uh your reactions, in in being mindfulness etc. so that you are not self-sabotaging yourself. You know, overconfidence is a big problem. >> Uhhuh. So, is it simply just uh putting in a stop-loss order? Is it can we simplify it to that level or what other uh factors are involved? >> Yeah. The pro the problem is never the technical side. You know, everybody knows how to put in a a stop-loss order.
[00:49:30] Everybody knows how to to close a trade that is losing. It's just clicking a button, right? But uh it's about the mindset. When you have a trade that goes against you, and I'm not speaking about myself with 20 years experience, but if you have a more inexperienced trader, let's say with three years or five years experience, and they they have a high expectation about a trade and then they are starting or this trade goes into the other direction and then hope is taking over, right? They hope ah okay, it's now
[00:50:01] down 10%, oh, it will come back. let's give it some more time etc. And then sooner or later you're sitting in a in a in a big uh in a big loss, you know, and I have I I mean it's it's always a cliche, right? You can read that on social media, etc. Use stop losses and uh you know um let only a stock go seven or 10% against you etc. So but I have seen traders who who sit for weeks in big losing positions and were not able
[00:50:32] to close them. You know, every time when when your when your emotions are taking over, it becomes more and more difficult to do good trading decisions. That is self-sabotaging. What we spoke about uh before, right? >> How much does position sizing uh play into this? >> You know, I learned risk management very very early in my career. I learned that from one of the first guys I I was working with. I'm I I have a very simple rule of position sizing. you know, in
[00:51:03] good market periods, I invest 10 to 15% in one position, in one stock position. In in more bad times, let's say when the market is going sideways, I invest rather five to 10%. So, I'm I'm also using different position sizes. Sometimes when I have a high conviction trade, but more in in very mature and very liquid stocks, I can also go up to 20 20% position size. So Tesla as an example or Nvidia, I had last year I had
[00:51:36] a 25% position in Nvidia. Uh but only because you know I was able to place a very tight stop-loss and it was a very liquid name. When I trade more a story stock, I can also go down to 5% uh portfolio share or you know 5% of my trading capital in the stock. The thing is what I'm always asking myself every time when when I take a position is what will I do if the position gaps 20 or 30% against me you know and what what is the
[00:52:08] damage to my trading capital and when I invest you know when I invest 10% or 15% in one uh position and it gaps down 20% against me that is a loss which is it's not great but you can come back from that. So, but if you have a big position size, you know, like 30 or 40% in one stock and it gaps 20% against you, then it's getting more harder to come back from that. And um that's something, you know, I see with with younger traders,
[00:52:38] they always use too much leverage. They jump into options, they take big big position sizes because usually they want to make money very fast and that leads to a disaster. uh because you know it is always a two-sided situation right if the thing gaps against you you you never you never think about that but it can happen um then um yeah you suffer a big loss >> so did did you suffer um big early losses when you first started out and
[00:53:10] and learned these lessons early or >> I never crashed an account to be honest I never crashed an account because um I I learned risk management very very early when I started out as a trader and and when I became more interested in stocks, it was not, you know, 23 years ago, but uh a little bit uh later when I got interested in stock stocks, I I met one guy from the UK. He was a technical and very systematic trend follower. And I was fascinated by that because he was,
[00:53:42] you know, he he had a rule set and was just trading by rules and he was always emphasizing risk management always. how important that is um how to size positions in the right way etc. So I learned that very very early from scratch and that's why I never crashed an account. So, but you know, of course, I had up and downs in my equity curve. Um, and it's it's always a process over time and what I learned over time is the more you you you eliminate mistakes in
[00:54:13] your trading, you know, like for example, uh, letting losses run or something like that. If you eliminate such a mistake, you're getting better and better and your equity curve goes goes more up in a steady way. You know, it's never about changing the trading system itself. It's more about eliminating mistakes over time and then you make progress also as a trader. Of course, sometimes you also have to to to really change something in your your trading system if you have no risk
[00:54:44] management at all for example. uh but it's more like or for me it was more like a journey um uh of eliminating a lot of mistakes over time and then become better and better and better in in trading. So uh have you ever encountered a situation where you go through a draw down uh through a for an extensive period of time and then you think well maybe my system I need to tweak my system. I need to uh adjust it uh or do you just stick with it because
[00:55:16] you've been doing it for so long and you're comfortable with it that you know eventually it'll turn around. >> Yeah, I'm I'm totally honest with you. I still have today moments where I think oh my god do I really have an edge. So I mean it's you know this the selfdoubt and always being at a very high level in your confidence as a trader is not easy to be honest and um it's not you know it's not so much the drawdowns or or or sideways periods that
[00:55:50] uh you know that has an impact on my confidence. It's more like you know making mistakes or making not the progress that that I would like to see or trading not up to the level where I think I am as a trader. These are the moments where where I have doubts about my abilities as a trader. I always say that you have to reset yourself. You have to bring yourself back into the performance zone. And this is something which I'm always doing. you know when I when my equity curve is going sideways let's say for four weeks as an example
[00:56:21] my my my self or self-doubt is taking over slower and slower and slower and then I'm bringing back myself into the performance zone and that mostly means to make a reset to not uh to to not trade for a couple of days then to go to my rules again to go to my trading journal to have a look at my chart book so I have a chart collection of hundreds of charts where I exactly noted okay this is the pattern from a big winner etc. So and then I'm getting more more
[00:56:53] my confidence back and then I start to trade or take new trades again you know but but I'm 100% sure that that all traders sooner or later have um moments where they have doubts about their own uh trading and about their own trading skills. But it's more about managing yourself in my opinion and to bring back yourself into a performance zone. >> Well, it sounds like you have a a great faith in your system uh given that uh the kind of position sizing that you would take with Nvidia or Tesla or or
[00:57:25] any stock, right? >> Yeah. It's not so much about the system itself. I mean the system is very simple, right? um I have some some rules when to take profits, when to enter a stock, how to to manage the position size, how to manage the portfolio, etc. So, but you know when I have a lot of confidence in a stock like Nvidia or SMCI last year, um then I then I can also increase the risk a little bit. you know instead of risking let's say 0.5 to
[00:57:55] to 1% of my trading capital I risk a little bit more like you know one to one and a half% because there is a when you have a very very good trading opportunity and it meets all of your criteria then I'm also willing to to bet a little bit more um and and also take a larger position size but it has more to do with having conviction in the stock itself that that this is the right stock at the right time instead of my abilities. But because I manage all the
[00:58:27] trades the same way, it's not that I uh that I traded the Nvidia trade differently than than my trade than than other trades as an example, you know. But sometimes, >> you know, I'm a discretionary trader and with with the with the experience when you when you have when you observe and trade the markets for 20 years, you develop something like intuitive uh in or something like intuition, right? when you look always at the same type of companies for many years, you you you intuitively feel that that this
[00:58:58] could be the right stock at the right time. And I learned one thing and I know that a lot of traders will probably say no to that. But you have to trust your intuition. You know, I I I always say that you know my my brain consists of three parts. I have the logical brain, I have the emotional brain and I have something like a pattern brain, right? And sometimes when I look at a chart it speaks to me and is you know sometimes I look at a
[00:59:29] chart and and the chart says to me yeah this is I I cannot really say that you know but I have a very good feeling about a chart and um that is something where intu intuition comes into play and every time every time when I when I when I went against my pattern brain I lost money. Every time when I had a bad feeling about a stock, but I made a bet on that and I bought the stock, it wents against me. And every time when I have a very good feeling about that and I
[00:59:59] increase my position size in the stock a little bit, then it's really going for me. >> So this is, you know, this call that a six sense, but I call that just experience and and intuition. And I I very often say that to people, never ever >> underestimate experience in trading. This is really important. >> So, um share with us a little bit about um your your trading performance over the 20 years that you've been trading in different types of markets and kind of how your performance has um changed over
[01:00:33] time. >> Yeah, I personally don't like to speak so much about performance to be honest. you know when you look at social media as an example all the traders who post their performance on uh on social media and um when when I'm getting in contact with uh my followers and also you know the the people from my own uh community I know how frustrating that can be to um to look at these results and probably
[01:01:03] never achieve that or probably u never be be or or compare yourself as a trader and I'm also you know I'm also suffering sometimes these moments where people post something on social media and I know some of these traders then I'm looking at the result and then I ask myself oh my god why was my year last year not in the exactly same way so this is you know this is something where I personally don't don't like to speak about performance and because I know how
[01:01:35] much harm performance performance comparison can bring to traders. So, and you know, I I can share my results here from from May because I'm I'm also more openly with my community about that. This year was a very good year to be honest until now. The only exception of course was the was the uh the January 27 Deep Seek event, you know, but uh for example, in in May, we had so many great stocks that moved higher and I was up alone 50% in May this year. So but wow
[01:02:06] you know when I share that yeah when I share that with other traders >> everybody's saying yeah great etc. But I know that a lot of people look at that and say okay is that something I could achieve why I'm not achieving that etc etc and it causes a lot of emotions and I know that from the discussions and with with other traders and also I know that >> yeah by by myself how frustrating that can be if you always look at at performance >> I see so you think that the risks or the
[01:02:38] dangers of of uh this comparison uh that other traders would make so well why can't I make 50% in May too. That risk is greater than what could be achieved through inspiration. Um you know the the flip side of saying hey well now I have a goal to shoot for and maybe I can achieve that someday maybe not now but um that we should focus in on more of the risks to the mind of a trader rather than the opportunities. >> Absolutely. Absolutely. You know, I'm
[01:03:08] working with traders oneonone and in groups for many years right now, >> and every trader is differently, you know, and I I see that with with traders I'm working with that they have total wrong expectations >> and you know, I'm I'm a different trader than other traders. Uh, you know, because I have a different personality. I'm sometimes a little bit more aggressive or defensive. other traders um that I I know also very good are more aggressive with me. they they sometimes
[01:03:40] have uh better results or a higher result not better but a higher result then I know other traders who have a where who have not the same performance they are more conservative so and how can you compare all these different things together you know if you just look at the performance numbers you probably gets very frustrated you know I will not have the same performance like a day trader uh maybe in a year um and uh you know a long-term investor will not have the same performance as me as
[01:04:11] an example. And I think it's so important as a trader to find out what is, you know, what is my personality? How can I execute a trading strategy without doing a lot of mistakes and then look at nothing else and just execute your your strategy. Be happy with with what the market gives you and what you can achieve as a trader. And um I I can also share another thing with you without mentioning any names you know.
[01:04:42] >> Mhm. >> When when we look sometimes at the US investing championship and I have a high respect with everybody who who uh attends the investing uh championship. You know I know guys from this investing championship which had one great year but never ever again. So >> and this is something you know where just the focus on performance alone leads to total wrong expectations in my opinion and more to frustrations than than than getting or helping traders uh
[01:05:15] with inspiration. Right. >> I I see. So so in other words it's it's very highly customized to the personality uh and the and the person involved in their risk um factors um and what have you. And that's what we should be focusing on, right? >> Sure. Sure. And also, you know, if you just look at the at the performance results, you know, I'm not a day trader trading Latin American stocks or Indian stocks or anything like that, you know, and um they will have a different
[01:05:47] performance like uh uh like me and you know, if you are maybe an eventdriven intraday uh trader um trading for a prop firm or a hedge fund, you also have a different performance. You know, I think the most important thing and that's why I'm that's what I'm always trying to do is compete with myself and not comparing yourself with other traders. Every time when I when I do that um you know every every time when I compare myself with other traders it's always a
[01:06:17] feedback that you know I'm I'm probably looking for making more performance or anything like that. And >> you know, every time every time when I change something in my trading approach, I start to lose money. Every time when I when when I change to a more short-term view, every time when when when I think, okay, yeah, Julian, maybe you should hold your stocks rather three to five days instead of a couple of weeks, something like that, you know, try to
[01:06:47] make more money. Every time when I do that, I start to lose one because it's not meeting my personality. It's not what I am, right? >> And this is this makes it so hard also to compare yourself with other traders. >> Uhhuh. So, what would would you describe what you just shared with us as your biggest challenge as a trader or is there something else? My biggest challenge as a trader is to always be 100 or 110% focused on my
[01:07:19] trading and on my setups. This is the biggest challenge and um I I mean you know that that I'm also running a community. You know that I'm also very active on social media etc. And I cannot shut or I cannot isolate myself 110%. That's not possible. Right? And um this is this is the biggest challenge. You always get influenced by everything you know by by something people post
[01:07:51] anywhere by reading the news whatever you you will be influenced. And this is something where I always try to focus myself 110% on my own trading doing always the same things over and over again having a long-term perspective on my trading etc. And this is very very hard to maintain over a long period of time and that is my biggest challenge to be honest right always being 100% focused you know.
[01:08:22] >> Um yeah >> fantastic well Julian I'd like to thank you for coming on chat with traders. >> Yeah thank you very much uh for for having me. >> Yeah fantastic. And how can our listeners get in touch with you? Yeah. Um, of course on social media you can find myself on X or Twitter. Um, you can also find myself on Julian Komar. And um, yeah, I'm always open to contact. So if people have questions or want to contact me, they can do that uh,
[01:08:54] every time uh, on my website or on social media. >> Great. Thanks for coming on the show. >> Yeah, thank you very much. What do you think is the most powerful part of your trading process? >> Stock selection and research. Find high potential stocks and making no compromises, you know, saying no to 99.9% of all stocks. That is the that is the power because you can have a stock, you
[01:09:25] know, which which gives you some some buffer of of of being wrong. you know, if you buy a really really good stock and it moves higher and and you bought it maybe a little bit too late or something like that and and it goes higher and higher um it's not a big issue. Um so selecting the right stock at the right time that is really my my biggest power to be honest. I personally think that every trader has something unique. Every trader has a superpower
[01:09:56] inside. Every time when when traders approach me and say, "How can you teach me blah blah blah and we have one-on-one mentoring sessions and etc." They always try to be me and I always say to them, "Stop doing that. This is It's not working. I can also not be Mark Mini." Over time, we discover something together that they have unique powers. You know, I'm working with an Indian trader, for example, who's a software developer. He he he developed his own his own indicators, etc. I'm working
[01:10:26] with an Australian trader who has a lot of deep knowledge about Australian companies. That's an edge. You can use that, right? And it's the same thing with me. I'm I have a natural connection to um to technology companies. I understand what they are doing. I I am very motivated also to find out what is a quantum computer and how does the quantum computer work. So and this is something which fascinates me and this is you know why I can select stocks with
[01:10:58] uh which has has a very high potential and that's also the reason why I sometimes can say yeah Google is probably not the company that we should or I should trade. Here I asked Julian about his thoughts on AI currently and how it might impact us as traders these days or in the near future. >> If if if AI would be so good at the moment that they could trade the market in and out, we were all jobless to be honest. >> Yeah, >> that that's a reality, right? Uh trading
[01:11:31] AI is not at the at that level. The the thing is what what I'm in what I am interested in a little bit in AI is you know maybe AI could do some research. We're discussing that in my own community and some people are trying that out and uh for example using open uh sorry chatbt to to um sum up business models you know what is the business model is that innovative etc. they using something like that.
[01:12:01] >> The answers chat GBT are giving giving me and giving my members is absolutely nonsense. I mean you can find that out in one second if you go to the investor relation website and have a look at that you know and I I don't see that at the moment but that must not be that it will not come in future. I I I could imagine that AI will play a role in future in selecting stocks or maybe also analyzing chart patterns but you know it's a bit
[01:12:33] this is this is a question I recently discussed it also with a finance financial journalist why is AI not doing all this technical analysis stuff for us you know chart patterns as an example I don't know any software right now where AI is so good that it can really really do good anal analysis of chart patterns. >> Maybe not yet. >> Yeah. But but because you know the how AI works and how how machine learning works is uh
[01:13:05] in in quotes is very dumb at the moment. It's not so intelligent and nobody of us is able to to finance a data model from Palanteer or whatever. So um it's very basic and chart patterns itself in the stock market it always morphs these these chart patterns they have so small details sometimes uh which separates a good chart pattern from a bad chart pattern and I mean AI is currently or or
[01:13:36] the models are not trained enough for that and to be honest probably in 20 years we will trade differently. Yeah, >> I honestly think that it's going to happen soon like AI is going to get smarter and smarter, but it's more like are we like what are we going to how are we going to be prepared as you know um traders especially discretionary traders and maybe we can use it to our advantage when it gets to that level but I always think that it could happen really fast and and we just have to be prepared and
[01:14:08] maybe make it our friend and use it. It's just another tool. >> But what is the consequence of that? Because you know um I I don't recall the name of this effect. Ah yeah the Lindy effect. The Lindy effect says if something is there for a very very long time it has a very high probability that it will stay a long time. And you know when when I go back in charts I have charts from 1700 you know the selfie bubble etc. uh the stocks are showing exactly the
[01:14:40] same patterns as today. So I think the the probability that the patterns will stay the same for a very long time in the future are still very high. So and of course I c I could see AI as a tool which is helping me to make better decisions as a trader but I highly doubt that it will change the market itself because the AI models are still developed by humans. Um we had similar situations in the past you know where everybody was screaming about high frequency trading etc that
[01:15:11] will change everything in the market blah blah blah p patterns did not change so it's always the same thing and and I I'm not sure where I read that but there was an article or something like that where where the author exactly also wrote about that we we will probably develop AI algorithms that trade the same way as we are trading today because of course we know how to analyze the chart chart patterns etc and we we are only using AI to do that but AI is
[01:15:44] probably not reinventing a total new way of trading >> that's why it will never change the market structure so that that's how I I I see that so um we are prisoners of our own minds >> here I was thinking back to what he shared with Ian earlier in the interview about one of his worst trading experiences relatively recently and I wanted to know how it still can affect a seasoned trader like himself and how he bounced
[01:16:18] back. >> This is really an exceptional event. I never ever experienced something like that and um there are two answers for that. Um the first is from Paul Tuda Jones who who said uh you know forget your losses quicker than your winners because the losses are always impacting you more or or stronger than your winners. And the second thing is um the question is where
[01:16:48] is your focus as a trader? And um I always compare that with um with with a professional sportsman. you know, if you are playing on a field, soccer player or whatever, and you always think about a last game that that you lost, um you will have a very hard time to play a a good game in the present. So the first thing what I what I was doing is to restart my equity curve for the year. So that means I don't want to look at this
[01:17:20] big down day all the time when I look at my equity curve. >> So that is the first thing. So my my equity curve this year starts on February the 1st. Of course, you know, when when of course I have a second chart where also this dip is included, but you know, I don't want to look at that all the time because it would always impact me and um yeah, so that was the first thing what I was doing, you know, remembering what Paul Tudtor Jones said about that and also other
[01:17:51] interviews that I read where where people say said, you know, you you must really restart and look into the future and that also includes not looking at these big down day all the time, right? And then the second thing what I was doing is really, you know, focusing on playing the same game again. So, it was not that I was trading differently from that time on. It was more like, okay, be more selective. That's one one point. But, um, you know, waiting for for the
[01:18:22] right thing. And I analyzed that's maybe maybe a good point. I analyzed the event very very much. I I went through all the trades. Did I do something wrong? Did I oversee something? Yes. Okay. This stock was maybe a little bit more extended etc. And and what were the learnings? And I asked myself, okay, is it something which could repeat in the same way in the next one, two years? And I came to the conclusion probably yes. But
[01:18:53] um because I never experienced it exactly in the same way in the past, the probabilities are probably not so high that that I will exactly experience the same thing again in the future. Yeah, I mentioned that during the interview that that I said something like yeah you know you have the most diffic or I have the most difficult periods uh when I was doing very good. So and >> that's also something I learned. I I plotted a Ballinger bands on my equity
[01:19:24] curve to see when I'm really doing good. When when I see that my equity curve comes back after it was outside of the Ballinger bands for a couple of weeks and it's coming back into the Ballinger bands and that is a sign for me to take or to cut back a little bit exposure and probably get off margin etc. you know this is something I don't feel but it's more a technical reminder for me to to manage my emotions and it's the same way you know I also have other rules around
[01:19:56] that uh for example if my equity curve goes below the MA20 or if I have um a losing day where my portfolio is going down more than 4% in one day I always have actions around that you know it's it's the same thing like like um this deep sea uh or deepseek um event, you know, when I have a when I have a losing day like that, you know, I I I don't hold these positions very long. I want to get rid of these positions very quickly. Uh
[01:20:27] because um on one side, I want to be in cash. That's that's one one point. But on the other side, you know, um the longer you hold such a position which is going against you, the more it has also an impact on your on your mindset. And if if you are in a bad period or if you are in a bad mood, uh mistakes repeat. You're making more mistakes if you're not 100% in your performance. So >> what would you say sets you apart from the other 90%? And then do you believe
[01:21:00] is it possible that more traders these days can change these statistics? What sets me apart? I to to be to be brutally honest h it's the edge that I have because you know the 90% of the traders they probably have an edge but they are not able to execute that and I went through so yeah I went through through so many years where I always improved my
[01:21:32] trading and made mistakes and learned from that etc. And that's you know how I was able to bring the edge more and more to life. But uh that that sets me apart. You know the most traders they they they they have an edge but they are not bringing them to life. And maybe another answer to that is I always took trading extremely seriously and that's something you know which I can see from from other traders today.
[01:22:03] They are not trading. They're not taking trading serious enough. They always think, "Yeah, I can do that, you know, aside from everything else. And I, you know, I can be the best sportsman and I can be the best father, mother, and I can, you know, I have all the information about the newest Netflix series, blah blah blah, you know." No, you can't do that. You know, trading is trading needs so much attention. You are, you are learning a new job. And you know I've been part-time trader for so so many years and trading was always
[01:22:36] extreme important for me and I play I I planned my life around trading you know I have been on business trips and I was sitting in the morning in a hotel room and in the evening in a hotel room and planning my trades and sometimes I was not at a company event because you know I I needed to to do some trading work etc. It's it's really you know passion and that I really really know that at the end I will be successful with that. But do you also believe that you know
[01:23:07] for the rest of us um still developing that you know we always hear these statistics oh 90 or you know 90 or 95% of traders fail but these days I think there's an advantage because we have a lot more um we have a lot more tools that we never had 10 even just 10 years ago a lot more information a lot more mentors you know access at least access to trading communities and mentors and all this information. So with all this
[01:23:38] um do you think that you know that you might see a change in the statistics in the in the coming years? >> I don't think so to be honest. I don't think so. >> Yeah. Because more information, better tools, whatever will not make you better trader or it will not help you. You know, I I I could also trade with with you know without any tools, right? It's not about tools. It's not about monitors. It's not about hardware, software, whatever. It's about, you
[01:24:09] know, taking a very simple trading system. There are so many trading systems out there, even in books or magazines or YouTube or whatever, but nobody is is able to trade them. They all have an edge. So, but it's it's really about, you know, discipline. is following the rules, building up confidence and conviction in yourself, in your uh trading method, finding something where you're compatible with and it's the same thing like you know 100 years ago and that will not change it will not change with tools and you
[01:24:41] know I mean we are seeing that also with uh with these robot robot trading services or whatever it does not may it doesn't mean that that they are more successful than discretionary traders because you know people can override their own systems etc. It's always about the human factor and that will not change in my opinion and I see that with young traders um I I don't see any change change with that more information is not helpful. I I can I can say one thing from my experience with working
[01:25:12] with traders the the traders who make the most progress that I work with they are the quietest person. They are very systematic in how to learn trading. They have very realistic expectations, how long it takes and what it takes. Yeah, they they are very strategically uh going through this learning process of training. They know exactly what they have to learn. They they know um what
[01:25:43] are the challenges etc. And the people who mostly are very loud and uh and and want to make money very fast, they they are probably will not make it very long time. >> You've reached the end of this episode of Chat with Traders, but rest assured there are more episodes loaded with real market insight and zero hype on the way soon. So to stay updated with each great new release, subscribe to the podcast in iTunes. And we'd love it if you'd leave
[01:26:15] a rating and review. We'll catch you next time on Chat with Traders. [Music]
