# 171: Stan Gluzman – Raid the "Money Box"
# source: YouTube auto-captions (en-orig) https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=puDBc5vi4Nw

[00:00:02] Markets, speculation, and risk. This is the Chat with Traders podcast, hosted by Aaron Fifield. What's up? How you doing, folks? This is episode 171, and it's with great pleasure that I introduce to you Stan Gluzman, an intraday equities trader at the proprietary firm Seven Points Capital. Stan also heads up a small team of junior traders at one of Seven Points' additional offices outside of New York,
[00:00:34] in Fort Lauderdale, Florida. To give you an idea about the topics discussed on this episode, we begin with Stan's path to consistent profitability as a prop trader. Then from there, we get into specifics about the various strategies that Stan has traded in recent years, including the actual strategies that he implements in the market today. I also ask Stan to share details about the various forms of analysis, statistical, fundamental, and technical,
[00:01:06] that he uses to identify his best trading opportunities each and every day. Of course, there's more topics, too, but I'll just summarize by saying I really do rate this episode. It's a good one, and there's plenty of good bits from our conversation that I'm sure you can benefit from, especially if you're a short-term trader. I'll also mention that if you do like this episode, you should go back and listen to Mike Katz on episode 156, because Mike's the co-founder of Seven
[00:01:37] Points, and as you'll hear, he was a mentor to Stan while he was still developing the skills to trade professionally. Let's get it started. Here is Stan Gluzman. I was starting to wonder, I thought uh cuz the market's still open. I was surprised you wanted to do it this at this time, actually. Thought you might have been uh managing a position still. Um I'm watching I'm watching the markets. I'm watching, but I don't I'm not into in anything right now. Um
[00:02:09] yesterday I missed a few a few plays, actually, but you know, I don't really like to trade the close anymore. The close used to be my go-to time, but the market has shifted, and I guess I've adapted to just hit it in the morning and kind of leave it alone for the rest of the day, and in the afternoon, I just scalp around sometimes, but it's not a very it's not a very profitable uh time for me anymore. So, I don't mind missing the close. Fair enough. Okay.
[00:02:41] So, you're normally flat before the close, as well? Like, you're not holding anything into the close? No, I don't like to I don't like to hold overnight. No, I yeah, I understand that, but like, you're normally flat say by, you know, 3:00 p.m. or something like that, anyway? Yeah. Yeah, I'm usually flat by by noon. All right. Okay. Yeah. Like, I I scale in my biggest size is probably at 9:45, and then like, I'm trading around my core position until maybe 11:00, and
[00:03:13] then at 11:00, I just have like a tiny position left, and then by 12:00, I usually close it out because yeah, like, it's kind of like the the most inefficient time is in the morning. Like, the most it's mostly mispriced in the morning, and then by noon, it's like already priced in. So. Man, I saw that chart you posted uh was it yesterday? A C L R O. I'm not sure what stock that is, but man, that looked like a really tough trade. It looked like you absolutely nailed it, as well. That was uh
[00:03:43] that that was some skill there. For which one? Which chart? C L R O. Is that it? C L R O, hmm. Um, let me see. You know, these tickers, they pop they pop out of my head as soon as I close the computer. C L R O, that was today actually, yeah. That was today. Okay. Yeah, that was this morning. Was that VWAP that you had on as the indicator on the chart? Yeah, yeah, look at VWAP. That was like
[00:04:14] dead flat for most of the day. Like it looked like a straight line. It dipped, I think, around midday. Yeah. But yeah, you seem to just short the tops and cover at the bottom. Um, I'm working on it, man. It doesn't always work that way. Sometimes I get a little greedy and I try to hold and then I just get squeezed out. But whenever I I tend to I'm able to kind of short near the top. Um, so if I do cover that wash out, at least half my position, I'm ready to
[00:04:45] re-short the next pop. So, uh, that that's I guess my secret uh, you know, when it comes to trading these type of stocks that are like crazy volatile. And there's a lot of there's a lot of reasons why I was covering the bottoms. Like it was the only uh, play for the day, so all these chat rooms are watching the same stock and they're all going to I know they're all going to pump it like multiple times. So, I'm ready. Okay. It just looked like a really tough chart to trade. It was, yeah. It actually was pretty
[00:05:16] pretty tough, yeah. Mhm. Anyway, man, how long have I got before uh, today? As long as you want, man. We've got time. Awesome. Well, I've got a lot I want to chat to you about, so let's uh, let's get started. Um, how many years have you been trading for now, Stan? Full-time, I think around four, four and a half years full-time, but in total maybe five and a half years in total, yeah. I was trading I started in I think 2013, around that, but I was investing my money. Like I was still in college and I
[00:05:48] started just kind of dabbling in investing um trying out some formulas that my investing professors, you know, showed me in class and um I bought something that was like more speculative, I guess. I didn't really look at the chart. Um I just like plugged it in my formula and it said buy, so um and it made me some money. It made like 30% in 2 days and it was like a $5 stock. So, it was pretty crazy. So, that's when I'm like "Why am I buying Apple when I can make 30% in 2 days?"
[00:06:20] So, that was kind of a I was bit by the bug that same day. So, yeah, and then in 2014 I started um doing a lot more research on how to actually make money, you know, make cash instead of like returns at the end of the year, right? And I started like studying how to trade and and whatnot and I signed up to a bunch of different chat rooms and uh bought a bunch of DVDs, so kind of locked myself in a room
[00:06:51] for a while and was just studying, grinding, and blowing up accounts. I blew up a couple of accounts in 2014 and uh and then I thought I needed like a real um environment to, you know, surround myself with with professionals and that's when I decided to join a prop firm. And that was 2015, so. So, when you went full-time, is that when you actually joined the prop firm or you full-time just trading from home for a while as well?
[00:07:22] I was uh full-time when I joined the prop firm. So, as soon as I actually graduated college, I uh joined a prop firm like next month um and went full-time. But before that I was I was studying uh quite a bit, um but it was part-time. But I was still like trading I was trading in class. Like I was sitting in my classes and I was you know you know putting positions on. Were you having much success with trading before you went into the firm?
[00:07:54] I was a break-even trader in terms of my executions. But, I was so undercapitalized. I was trading very small positions and my commissions were burning through my break-even trades. So, I was going down. My P&L curve was going down because of the commissions. Yeah. But, I was like sort of a sort of a break-even trader. I just needed that little push, you know, that little edge. What do you think What do you think you were struggling
[00:08:25] with the most before you like joined the prop firm? Like the sort of trading that you were doing in class. How different was that to the sort of trading you began to do once you joined the firm? Oh, it was completely different. It was different stocks, different strategy, different Everything was completely different. So, actually what I'm trading right now is pretty similar to what I'm what I was trading back in in college.
[00:08:56] But, when I joined the prop firm, the strategies were completely completely different. We were scalping for like a half a penny. Literally or or one penny and we were doing millions of shares a day. So, that was a totally different strategy. Okay. Well, we're going to get into that. I've made a note because I I think that's really interesting and I want to hear some more details around that. Cool. I think it'd be interesting to ask you how you actually got into prop. Like was I know you're at Seven Points now. Is that like
[00:09:28] Did you just go for an interview there and you got that or you tried to get into multiple firms and you you know had a bit of pushback? Like how did you actually go about getting into a prop trading firm? Yeah. So, I did some research on prop trading and there wasn't much information, but I just read on a forum that a good prop firm is the one that doesn't take your money. Like no capital contribution means your interests and the interests of the prop firm are aligned. So, they
[00:09:59] want you to make money. Um as opposed to when you're going in uh when you're going into a regular prop firm that does uh require capital contribution, they don't really care if you blow up or not because it's not their money. So, and SevenPoints Capital was just right next to my college, too. So, I was like I got to try them out. And um they didn't charge commissions, they didn't charge they didn't require capital contribution. So, I thought, you know, I went in there, I spoke to my
[00:10:29] cats. He looked at my trades. I saw that there's like 40 people there trading and everybody's, you know, seems to be happy. So, I thought this is this is where I want to be. And uh you know, they they they brought me in. Do you remember what that I presume there was some kind of interview process. Do you remember what what that was like? Yeah, I just um you know, I I think I had a phone interview. Yeah, I had a phone interview with uh one of the traders. He was also a recruiter. And he
[00:11:03] you know, he figured that I kind of knew a little bit about trading, a little bit about risk management. So, he invited me in to speak with my cats and I just came in and I showed him um I showed him my trades, basically. You know, he was just asking me about like just figuring out what what I know and what I don't know. Um and I guess if I'm teachable or not. Um like his thing was like he didn't want somebody to come in and say, "I know what I'm doing. Like don't tell me what to do." Um you know, that kind of thing, but at the
[00:11:34] same time um know something about trading, like being passionate about trading. So, that kind of balance in there. So, I showed him some of my trades and I remember I I showed him a chart and he was asking me, oh where where's where was your stop and where's your target? And I'm you know, telling him and he's like, oh that's a trade that I would put on and I'm like, oh nice. I'm probably fine. What was
[00:12:05] uh what were their thoughts that you were a break-even trader? Like were they discouraged by that in any way? Or were they not fazed? No, they didn't care because they were recruiting people who knew a lot less and did a lot less trading than than I did. So, I don't think they really cared because the strategies that they were trading were completely different. Like the edge was there. So, it was just a matter of teaching me
[00:12:36] a different strategy. Okay. Yeah. Now that you have what what did you say earlier? I think you said it's 4 years you've been with the firm now. About that, yeah. Yeah. So, now that you've got those 4 years experience having traded prop and you've also had some experience as a retail trader, what would you say the advantages you have of being a prop trader are versus retail now? You know, I asked this question on a a recent interview with Jack Ma. I think you may have heard that
[00:13:08] episode. Um Yeah. He's a futures trader though, so I'm just interested to hear if you know, from an equities trader perspective. Yeah, the So, the difference is day and night. Somebody asked me that before and I gave a comparison of working out in a really nice high-end gym with a personal trainer versus working out in your backyard with buckets of water basically. That's how I felt at least. That's brilliant.
[00:13:38] Yeah, I mean you're first of all you're trading other people's money. So you're not risking your own money. So there's that psychological burden off my shoulders first of all. Second of all, there's different routes that you don't have when you're a retail trader. When I was trading on my own, I was asking my so-called mentor like what routes like I was just trying to learn anything about routes. And the guy was like, you know, I just use Arca and it's just an exchange, you
[00:14:10] know. It's a route that I use even now, but you know, at some points like we have like 10 access to like 10 different dark pools and like six different aggregators plus all the exchanges. So there's a lot of different possibilities how to use those routes. And the prices for those routes are are nothing, next to nothing. So you know, everything like advantages are are really there. So Okay, so that's that's one example. Can
[00:14:40] we go into that a little more? Like when you're talking about routes, you're talking about how you're sending your orders to the exchange, like which exchange you're routing to, right? Correct. So can you just go into that a little more? Like why is that why is that an advantage? Okay, for example, you're looking at the level two, the bid and the offer. And there's like 25,000 shares on the offer and it's printing it's printing some shares on the offer. It's printing 1,000 shares, 1,000 shares, 500 shares.
[00:15:12] So normally if I'm just using Arca, if I want to sell on the offer, I would add liquidity on Arca and wait until I get filled. And I'm going to be the dead last person to get filled. Um if I have dark pools, access to dark pools, I can throw 200 shares on 10 different dark pools and see if I get tagged by one of them. So, and chances are I will get tagged by one of them. Chances are it's like Credit Suisse is printing on the offer. So, I can just put my entire order
[00:15:44] on the offer and be the first one to get filled. So, I I'll skip the line and I can actually get short on the offer and see if the stock drops. Okay, so that's a way for you to jump the queue. Yeah, exactly. Yeah, and those are the strategies when I came in, those are the strategies that uh I I saw Mike execute and I'm like I was speechless. I couldn't I I've never seen anything like it. You know, I've seen him execute like 50,000 share orders on
[00:16:15] the offer like skipping the line and then getting short and covering at the midpoint. You know, those strategies they don't really work anymore. Uh but we still do have access to those dark pools and aggregators and like I do use them from time to time. Like this morning I was trading um FCX and I was getting short with Morgan Stanley on the dark pool. So, are you going to let's say you want to get short but you don't want to hit the market. You just want to join the offer.
[00:16:46] Yeah. Are you going to send I think you said before you might send 200 shares to a dark pool to see if it gets hit. Um are you going to send that to like 10 different dark pools and see which one gets hit first and then pull your orders um on all the others? Yeah, that's correct. Exactly. Okay, so as soon as one gets hit then you're going to reload and with your full size. Yeah, so that's one way to get It one way to use
[00:17:16] that technology is to get short if you actually want to execute a position and I want to like jump the line and you know, I'm going to see who's buying and then sell to that to that buyer. Another way is that if the stock is actually going up and I want to know is this a real buyer or is it just going up with the market or like with the ETF that kind of thing. Um So I can throw a bunch of orders to different dark pools, different aggregators, see who tags and keep
[00:17:46] throwing it there. Is Is he there? Is he still there? Is he still there? So I can be actually long but I'll keep selling to him a little bit different you know, at different prices to see if he's still there. So for as long as he's still there, I want to be long. Once he's not there anymore, I'm actually selling my position getting short because it's probably going to roll over because he is the only guy who's buying right now and pushing the price up. Okay. And I'm just thinking about the time it
[00:18:17] would take to send like 10 different orders to 10 different dark pools. Do you have some technology which assists you with that? Uh of course, yeah, one button. I have like 150 100s probably about 150 hot keys. So it's one button. 150 hot keys. Yeah. How many How many keys are on a keyboard? I'm not sure but I'm utilizing everything. I have like control Q is is one but like alt Q is something else or
[00:18:49] shift Q is something else. So What's your What's your most used hot key? It's probably F2 which is just short the bid. Okay. What that take the whole bid or how many does it short? Oh, it's just whatever quantity that I put in that level two. Okay, so you got to type that in and then you hit your hot key. Yeah, yeah, yeah. I use a scroll wheel to to scroll up and down to pick my size and I hit F2. Okay. Cool. Yeah. Now, when you came into the firm, I presume
[00:19:20] you probably worked quite closely with Mike Katz. Yeah. Okay. Would you say that he was a mentor to you in some way? Absolutely, yeah. He was probably one of them that one of my mentors, probably the first real mentor that I had, yeah. Right. Now, for anyone listening, if you don't know who Mike Katz is, he's Seven Points Capital and he was on the podcast last year for episode 156. So, I'd encourage you to give that a listen.
[00:19:51] What was some of the traits that Mike tried to instill in you? I was sitting next to Mike for quite a while. Um and the one thing that I noticed, uh he he wasn't really doing like anything anything different from all the other traders, but he was always looking around. Like, that's what I noticed. He was always looking around, scanning, journaling, just kind of figuring out what's moving right now, where is it moving, why it's moving, and how do you make money.
[00:20:23] Uh you know, and that's it. And he he always seemed to be like in in the right places at the right times because he was always like, you know, he kept his eyes open all the time, on his toes. Uh so, I think uh that's his biggest his his biggest advantage as a trader to just be open-minded and see, you know, is swing trading working right now? Is it just intraday momentum that's working? Is it scalping that's working? And you know, whatever it is that is working, let's jump in there. When we talk about things which are
[00:20:53] working and aren't working, can you maybe just flesh that out a little more? Like, obviously it sounds quite um it sounds quite I guess that's a bit of a weird question to ask because it it it probably sounds like a bit of a dumb question, but it's like how do you how do you kind of tell when something's beginning to not be as effective as it once was and and think about when you should stick cuz that's the hardest part, right? When you should stick with it and just know that there will be times where these
[00:21:23] particular plays don't work so well and others are going to work so well, but when do you like entirely just abandon that and jump to something else? Like that's a it's a tricky call to make. It is. Yeah, so total to totally abandon I wouldn't ever totally abandon a strategy, you know, I I always try to keep my toolbox full, but I think if you're trading a certain setup and for 2 days in a row you're down on the day, you got to change something. So that's kind of my rule of thumb. If I'm down two day I'm red two days in a row, I
[00:21:54] have to change something. Whether it's my approach to the to that setup, I have to tweak my entries, tweak my exits, or think about maybe it's a psychological error, may maybe I was fearful or something like that. Um but if it's more of a lack of volatility or lack of just setups, then I have to start looking around. So rule of thumb for me two days two down days. Can you give an example of that? Like
[00:22:24] when was the last time you were down two days in a row? Um pretty recently. Um Okay, so what did you do what did you do like the following day? What was some of the things which you tweaked? Can you remember? Yeah, so actually I think 3 weeks ago I had a pretty tough week where I was down two two or three even three days in a row. So um for me it's just sizing down. First thing I do is always I size down. I bring down my
[00:22:55] my risk for the day, my lockout for the day divided by four automatically. So if my you know, max risk is X, it's 1/4 of X next day. Sizing down and just kind of feeling the waters, going back to basics, trying to scalp versus going for the home run trades. And from there, I'm just analyzing my statistics and seeing like what am I you know, what am I doing right, you know.
[00:23:26] And and comparing it to what I was doing. So, figuring out what's what it is that's not working and why it's not working. You know, if it's a mistake on my part, then my my job is to eliminate that mistake. But, the first step is to size down and to go back to basics. Okay. And I wanted to ask you as well, how long was it until you became confident in your ability to make money as a trader? I think
[00:23:56] So, when I started, at seven points, I was, again, a a break-even trader for about four months. And I think my fifth month, I got my first paycheck. And from there on, it was it was more about how do I size up. And that's it. So, I think like first probably first six months, yeah. But, from there on, yeah, I was just trying to size up as much as possible. And you know, I went up I went up pretty
[00:24:26] big. Like in 2016, um in 2016, we were trading we were trading a lot. So, that was like my second full year. So, that was when my 2015 was my first full profitable year. 2016, I was on top of the world. I was like, let's make some real money now. Um So, question for you, Aaron. What do you think how how how many shares do you think I traded in 2016 just scalping? Well, I know it was in the millions.
[00:24:57] It was, yeah. Just take a guess. I actually looked at the at the numbers uh yesterday. How many shares over the entire year? Yeah, yeah, yeah. Oh, man. Uh 500 million? Oh, wow, that's that's a lot. 260 million. So, that's like uh about a million or probably more than a million a day uh just just scalping. So, just really trying to size up and uh just trade as much as possible. So, 2016 probably was that year.
[00:25:27] Second year trading. That's a lot of shares. Did you ever get whacked like trying to size up? Like it sounds as though you sized up pretty quickly. Did that Were there any moments where uh you know, you took a pretty substantial hit and it kind of knocked you back a little bit? All the time. Um I think that's part of um part of like just trying to size up is sometimes you'll take a big hit and um increase your risk tolerance. So, um I would take, you know, my first
[00:26:00] first time I ever took a thousand-dollar hit, that was a big hit for me, you know? I I you know, that was like a lot of hard work for a thousand dollars, but taking that first thousand-dollar hit, that was that was quite a bit. Um you know, and then, you know, as you size up, you're taking that thousand-dollar hit, that's kind kind of like a regular uh you know, a regular trade that went the other way. So, and the bigger you size up, like you will take uh you know, bigger hits and that's that's part of it. Yeah.
[00:26:31] Now, I think you said it was 2016 that you traded or was it about 250 60 million shares? Yeah, yeah, something like that. Okay. So, I presume that was the year that you were just doing a lot of scalping. Yeah. Now, just tell us a little bit about that strategy. What were you doing? So, back then there was a lot of inefficient algorithms um in the market and it was in stocks that were just kind of going uh sideways in a in a channel.
[00:27:01] For whatever reason, they were just very actively traded but going sideways. So, you know, traders say to make money you need um liquidity and volatility. Uh but back then we only needed liquidity and that's it. Like and also volume but not really volatility. So, I would pull up my regular 20 stocks from the from my list of stocks that are scalpable and I would look for those algos and they would you know, most likely print in 10 of
[00:27:33] them in 10 of those 20 stocks. Something would print on the offer or something would print on the bid. So, sometimes I would see like 2,000 share algo every like 20 seconds on the offer and I would just, you know, go through my um through my dark pools and see which one gets hit and then just short the offer and cover the mid or short the offer and see if the stock wants to flip down and cover the mid at one price down. Uh so,
[00:28:04] it was just it was a grind, you know? A lot of shares. Yeah. What stocks were you trying to do this in? Sprint. You know, the phone company Sprint, ticker S. Okay, and what type of range would a stock like that do on a given day? Like this isn't this isn't a stock which just has like a like a 5-cent range on the day, is it? It It is, yeah. It would have 2-cent range on the day, yeah. Now it's a little bit more volatile but back then it was just like a, you know, 3 to
[00:28:36] 5-cent range. Also, Siri, S I R I. Um Ford, F, would also be very stable, just sideways and printing a lot. There was a lot back then. Some of them got delisted. A lot of oil names oil stocks that got delisted. So to do this type of thing, I presume that's that's I guess one of the first things that you're looking for is a stock that has a very small range on the day. High volume and small range, yeah.
[00:29:07] High volume and small range. Okay. Yeah, it's interesting because uh you know, I did the interview with Jack Ma who's a futures trader and uh you know, he's trading bank bills and they do a very small range. So it's kind of you know, I'm just interested to hear but he's also, you know, spreading between contracts and doing all sorts of things where this is just you know, you're essentially market making, right? Exactly, yeah, market making. Okay. So were you were there ever times
[00:29:38] where you would take liquid to take liquidity? Yeah, for example, if I'm shorting on the offer and I'm I'm seeing that the offer is about to get taken out and the price is about to move up. I'm buying that offer. I'm covering my short and I'm buying that offer and I'm selling my long on the next offer, one price higher. Okay. Hold on, let me just go over that again. So if you're on the offer, you get filled, you're short. Mhm. If you see that offer is about to
[00:30:10] go, you'll then cover the trade at the same price and scratch it. Yeah. Okay. And what if you miss that? You're then covering at the price above for a a Yeah, if I if I miss it, then I'm not really covering. I'm I'm seeing maybe if I can cover on the bid, which is also the same price once it flips up. Okay. Um but usually I can time it, yeah. I mean, we we got pretty good at that stuff. So we could time that flip up and we could get out for break even. So it was essentially a riskless trade. So
[00:30:42] it was pretty crazy, to be honest with you. Like we were taking some pretty big positions and just scalping all day without with like a success rate of like 96% something like that. Like very rarely you would take a loss on the trade. How did you think about how like in your I guess your strategy must have had some idea about this there's a higher probability that uh you know, if I get filled on offer, there's a high probability that it's
[00:31:12] going to go back onto the bid rather than this offer's going to go and it's going to trade up to the next price. So, there is something called book pressure. And it's I mean, it is what it sounds like. It's the pressure within the level two. So, I can kind of gauge just by watching the tape, I can gauge if the stock if the pressure is down or up. So, um sometimes the sellers would be in control and a stock looks like it
[00:31:43] might actually flip down. Sometimes it's the other way, but those algos that were printing, they didn't care if it was the pressure was up or down. So, it could be printing the bid about to flip down, but that algo is still buying the offer. You see what I'm saying? So, I can get short on the offer while the stock is about to drop. Okay. Why are you so interested in what these algos are doing and not just
[00:32:14] regular buyers and sellers? Like what difference does that make to you? Because they're the ones that are giving me the fills at really crazy prices. So, you know, I'm the one that's taking the opposite side of of his trade and instantly in the money. And how do you know it's an algo? Cuz he keeps repeating he's literally printing every 20 seconds over and over all day. Same price, same
[00:32:45] quantity, same time increment. So, that's like a a timed buyer, I guess you could call it. Yeah. Why why are there people or firms or I guess participants running these types of algos. What what are their objectives? What are they trying to do? I think that they are filling customer orders, um but I'm not sure why they're doing that. But what I think is somebody calls up you know, who whatever Credit Suisse and says, "Hey man, um buy me
[00:33:16] like 2 million shares of this stock." And they're just like putting it in the algo and the algo just executes it with throughout like, you know, a period of 2 weeks or something like that. So, they don't really care if it's on the bid or on the offer, they just like trying to accumulate a position. You said before that often if you got filled on the offer, so you're now short, you would try and cover into the midpoint. Can you just explain what do you mean by the midpoint? Yeah, the midpoint is is is the midpoint
[00:33:47] between the bid and the offer. So, you can actually peg your orders to the midpoint and uh look for liquidity there because there's liquidity there. Like you don't see it, but there's liquidity there. Like I can add liquidity to the midpoint and see if uh if there is liquidity on the other side. So, I can short the bid, uh I can short the offer and cover uh in between the bid and the offer. Okay, and to do that you need to route your order to a dark pool, or can you do
[00:34:19] that on something like Arca? Yeah, you can do it on Arca. Uh chances are you won't get a fill on Arca. It's pretty expensive. Uh if you do it on BATS, uh BYX, uh you can pay a little bit and uh that's usually one of the first ones to get filled. So, I I route through through Bix uh to the midpoint pretty often. So, is that normally what you would try and do? Is get uh filled at the midpoint and not try and catch the the full spread? So, you wouldn't even try and then, you know, queue on the
[00:34:50] bid? No, I would try to first get the bid. Um but if I can't get the bid, let me get the mid then. Okay. And how profitable was this this type of trading for you guys? It was very profitable. I mean, nobody nobody really traded anything else. It was just scalping every day all day, and like people made a lot of money. But, you know, over time that it kind of went away because we were kind of at the mercy of that algo. Like,
[00:35:20] the position sizing, you know, how much money we're making was it depended on those algorithms, right? So, we have a basically a pizza pie, and we're dividing it among like 20 traders, right? And then, the more traders learn the strategy, like the smaller the uh the slices, right? And then, with time those algos got smarter, so the pie got smaller, and then, you know, next thing you know, we're eating crumbs. So, Do you see opportunity to do this in
[00:35:52] sort of some of the less liquid stocks? Like, you know, maybe some shitty little penny stocks? No. Not at all. I think in shitty little penny stocks, first of all, they're very volatile. Uh they're not really going sideways, and um second of all, it's mostly retail. So, retail they, you know, they're routing through some Robinhood, whatever. They have 1,000 share orders. They don't have like a million share order to fill.
[00:36:23] That's not a predictable pattern. Yeah, okay. I see your point. What sort of technology were you using to assist you with this type of trading? Point and click. Purely point and click? Yeah, yeah. Just a lot of hot keys. That's it. I love it. Uh what else was I going to ask you on this strategy? Um uh yeah, why'd you stop doing it? Was it Was it like you said? Yeah, the algos got smarter and the pizza got pizza slices got too thin?
[00:36:55] Yeah. That's pretty much it. got hungry. Pretty much. Okay. All right, so that kind of dried up. Your edge there kind of evaporated to a certain extent. Where did you go from there? What was your next kind of evolution as a trader? Yeah, so we noticed that um the pizza got really small there and we started looking around and we've been trading SSRs. Uh we started trading SSRs. And for those who aren't familiar,
[00:37:26] SSR is a short seller restriction. Um if a stock drops 10% today, then it's going to be SSR today and tomorrow for two sessions. Um so SSR means short sellers are not allowed to hit the bid. Um so short sellers are required to short in between the bid and the offer. So kind of like on the uptick. So anywhere in between. So usually short sellers are like
[00:37:57] stacked on the offer. Um so we started specializing in SSRs because we had all those routes, all those dark pool routes, and like ways to get in at the midpoint, at the offer, like find finding those like crazy prints. Uh we were able to short stocks that normal people, you know, would just try and short on the offer. Hopefully they they get filled. Uh we were actually getting some crazy fills as the stock was dropping and like not shortable.
[00:38:27] So, that was a big edge for us for a couple of years. So, why could you get these fills which other people can't? Purely because you're using dark pools? Yeah, I think so. Yeah. So, if I'm able to short the midpoint and most of the market participants pro- probably don't even know that they can, uh then that's an edge for me. You know, if they're sitting on the offer, hopefully, you know, hoping that they get filled, and I'm sending 20 different orders to 20 different venues at the
[00:38:57] midpoint, I'm cutting them off. I'm sitting at the mid and I'm getting I'm getting some fills at the midpoint as the stock dropping. So, I'm able to actually get short, you know, before anybody else would. Okay. And what about these stocks which are currently SSR? What about them makes them so attractive? Is it just because the offers become really stacked? And you can really lean back on that if if necessary? Exactly. Yeah.
[00:39:28] Yeah, the setup basically, if the stock gets really tight, um tight range, then, you know, I'm maybe I want to go long, maybe I want to get short, uh but if the offers are starting to come in, it starts kind of a domino effect, like a chain reaction where somebody sees the order the offer, and they they join that offer. And then everybody else starts to join, and the bidders get scared. So, the bidders start to pull their orders. And next thing you know, the stock is just
[00:39:59] rolling over, and everybody's trying to get short. And what type of trades were these for you? Were they very scalpy trades, or were you trying to ride out a larger move? Um it depended. You know, actually today I traded two stocks uh that were SSR. One trade was for like 5 cents, another trade was like for for 35 cents. So, it was it's it's kind of scalpy.
[00:40:29] Um it's not like an all-day type of a fader setup. It's more of a scalp setup, for sure. Uh but it's the different ranges depending on when that offer gets lifted. Okay. So, when a stock becomes SSR, if you try to uh hit the bid, you just your order just rejects, does it? It just hangs there, and that's it. Yeah, it doesn't fill. Okay. Yeah. Interesting. So, are you still I know
[00:41:00] you just said that you traded a couple stocks which were SSR today, but is that still like your bread and butter? Is that still the sort of things which you look for, or have you moved past that as well? It's um it's a tool in my toolbox, but it's not my money maker anymore. Yeah, it it that edge started I wouldn't say started going away, but it it it started kind of disappearing um for a while. Um I think last year, like last uh June or so. So, how does an edge
[00:41:33] like that disappear or become less effective? Because it it kind of seems like that's just a characteristic of of the market. Yeah, the offer gets um more fake. The level two becomes more fake, and it becomes a little a lot less uh tradeable. Like, I don't trust the level two as much, where that offer can used to come in, and there's nothing that would lift that offer, you know, other than a big order. But nowadays,
[00:42:04] you know, a big offer would come in, and somebody would try to buy a little bit of it, and they just cancel it, and the stock shoots up, and everybody covers at same time and you know, the stock has been flipping down for 10 minutes and and then in one candle it gives back everything. Just pops like 30 cents in one candle. So, it be becomes um uh yeah, it becomes very wiky and uh you know, the the trades, you know, after 100 setups, it's not as profitable anymore as it used to be. Yeah, okay.
[00:42:36] Right. Okay, so what's your kind of like go-to style of trade? Like when you come in now when you come in each day, what sort of things are you looking for? Like where where's your edge nowadays? Right now, I look for pretty much two different setups. Uh one of them is a a fader setup where a small cap stock gaps up and probably is going to fail. And just go back to where it came from.
[00:43:07] Um And that's the strategy I I was trading when I started in college. Um So, I kind of went back to that strategy because those small caps are very very volatile. And there's money to be made. They're very volatile and there's a lot of dumb money in there, you know, there's a lot of newbies and there's a lot of so-called investors who believe in those companies, but you know, if you read the PR, if you read the filings, you know that is irrelevant. You know,
[00:43:37] the PR is completely irrelevant and they're probably going to dilute like the company is going to try to raise money and like add shares to the to the share to the pool of outstanding shares. So, there are certain edges in there that help me you know, make a consistent profit. Um so, that's one of them and I still I still look at SSRs. It's still on my screen, just not on my main screen. Um and also right now it's earning season, so I do look at large gaps
[00:44:11] uh when they move like I don't know, like Intel, you know, they do um respect levels and I trade those levels. Okay. Maybe if we can just go into the the first setup which you spoke about there where you're fading uh stocks which gap up. So, what's an example of of why a stock might gap up? A- and something that might get your attention. So, a stock might gap up because for
[00:44:41] example, a company um announced that they're working on a licensing agreement with I don't know, Walmart. So, they're like dropping these like you know, big words, Walmart, right? And um you know, a lot of people are looking at that licensing agreement, Walmart, oh my god, let's buy it, right? And the stock just goes up. So, that's one reason, but there's a lot of different reasons they they gap up like it's very similar like
[00:45:13] you know, over the over the course of um you know, that I've been trading these setups like I've seen like pretty hilarious uh PRs and a lot of times it's the same PR that they released 3 weeks ago. It's the same exact one. So, they can like release re-release it two or three times. When you say it's the same one, is it the exact same one or it's just kind of like Yeah. It's the same one. Just they word it a little bit differently. They rephrase some things and it's the same exact
[00:45:43] thing. So, there's nothing new in it? Nothing. So, that's that's an instant red flag, I'd presume. Uh absolutely. That's an A+ setup right there. Yeah, okay. So, how are you finding these stocks? Um like I presume you have a pretty good idea on what stocks you're going to trade before the market opens. Is that the case? Yes. Yeah, I have a gap scanner. So with with certain criteria. So I like
[00:46:13] filter it out by float and market cap. So I want to I want to see a stock with a smaller float like maybe under 100 million. Most of them are like less than 20 million share floats. And you know, I want it to be a small cap. Like not like a billion billion dollar company. Cuz a billion dollar company has reputation, you know. But a small cap stock, they don't really care. They just want to want to gap it up. Whatever it takes. Okay. And can you talk to
[00:46:45] about how you're actually trading these? Because when I on your Twitter feed, you you post some of your trades. And one of the things which is quite apparent is how you use multiple entries and multiple exits. And you know, you you also run a core through the day. But can you talk about you know, how you're timing your multiple entries and why you think I presume there's some sort of edge or some sort of reason rationale why you're actually doing that and not just you know, I'm all in at this point. Mhm.
[00:47:18] Yeah. You know, if there was one secret to my formula, it's probably multiple entries and multiple exits. Because if I for example think, oh this is this is the top and I get in full size and I'm wrong, I take a big loss. Versus if I think, oh this is the top. Let me take a quarter position. I take a quarter and the stock, you know, keeps going and I'm wrong. Then I take a loss on a quarter position.
[00:47:49] So you know, on the contrary when I am right on full position, I'm right a lot. um, in second scenario, if I'm right, I'm in core position, I just add, you know, I add more more more, it drops, and I cover like half, and then I work a core. So, I know that I'm on the right side, I have a nice average. So, now I have I basically divide my trade into, uh, two separate trades. One of them is
[00:48:19] a scalp, uh, one of them is a core for the all day fade. So, I'm kind of able to, um, short pops, cover washouts, but at the same time ride out the the trend all the way back down, if if it wants to go back down. If not, then I just get out. How many entries would you say you take? I know it's obviously going to vary quite a bit depending on the day, the type of setup, etc., but,
[00:48:51] you know, would you say you normally I I think you said your first entry is normally about quarter of your size. Yeah. Does that mean you're going to take another three entries, or could that, you know, if as soon as the stock, if you're short, and it starts to drop, then, you know, you're you're starting to get in the money. Are you going to, like, sort of maybe take even more entries? Yeah, absolutely. So, if I'm right, I know I'm right, uh, and you know, the stock went to a level of
[00:49:22] resistance on a daily chart, and I found some warrants, for example, in in the filings at that price, and we actually stalled out there, then a lot of things are lining up, and I'm taking that first entry there. And if it rejects, then I'm adding as much as possible on the way down. Right? So, I'm not really I don't I'm not chasing, but near that top, if it actually stalls out and starts to roll over, I'm watching the tape very very closely. I see a big bid, I'm smashing that bid. And from there on
[00:49:54] if a stock pops uh to or near that um price, I'm uh re-shorting. And if it pulls back, I'm covering that re-short. Uh so, it could be two entries. It's never really one entry. It could be two entries. It could be 10 entries. Uh depending on liquidity, kind of you know, depending on trade to trade, it's different. But, definitely like scaling in with a few different orders and scaling out with a few different orders because you'll
[00:50:26] never really pick the top or pick the bottom. But, if you're like scaling in slowly, you have a lot more room for for you know, to be right. Mhm. And you said that you kind of split the trade up into two parts. So, you've got your core and then you've got some scalp trades mixed in there as well. Yeah, absolutely. Yeah. When you're covering, let's say so, the stock like just drops, runs through a whole bunch of bids, you're going to maybe cover some then.
[00:50:56] How much would you cover of your like of your full position? Like is this just like an eighth? Like how much are you kind of dependent on the scalps to work versus dependent on the core position to work? If the stock drops sharply, I want to take some risk off the table because there's probably going to be a bounce. So, I I might take off a quarter. Um if it drops, you know, puts on another two big red candles, then I'm going to take off another quarter. And I'm going to keep that half. But, if
[00:51:26] it bounces, usually after a sharp drop, there's a bounce. So, the idea is I want to cover into any big washouts and I want to short bounces. Okay. And just I guess going back a little bit um to talking about when you're getting into these types of plays, how much pain are you willing to take if you get it wrong? Because obviously something gaps up a lot on the day and you're trying to short it. You know, uh there's there's going to be
[00:51:56] like you've said before it's sort of difficult to pick the exact top. Um you're going to get it wrong sometimes. How much pain are you willing to take? I have a set risk amount that I'm willing to lose. If I go past that amount, um stopping myself out and that's it. Sometimes I don't and that's when I take the biggest uh my biggest losses when I get stubborn. You know, it's you have to think about making money and and and part of that is like having small losers. So, if you think
[00:52:27] you you're right, you know you're right, but the price is just going against you, you're going to take a big loss. Like do you want to make money or do you want to make you know, do you want to be right? So, I want to make money. So, if I'm wrong, I want to be out. Now, I believe this is something you do quite a bit in order to, you know, help you become better at these types of plays and just and a better trader in general. Uh you do quite a bit of statistical analysis. Yeah. Can you just share some
[00:52:58] of the things which you do? Uh you know, what what what is some of that analysis which you do? Yeah, so statistics is is something that I'm really exploring and I'm finding some edges and the more I talk about it the more secrets I'm going to give away, but um basically I'm I'm tracking the performance of my setups. So, if the setup is okay, it gaps up and then it spikes, you know, how much does it how First of all, how much does it gap up? Then how
[00:53:30] relevant is the news? How bad are the filings? Um how small is the float? The smaller the float, the higher it's going to go. Then how far it actually spikes. So, uh how far does it actually pull back? What time at what time does it top out? At what time does it bottom out? When does it close? What was the volume at the end of the day? What was the volume pre-market? What was the volume at 9:35, 9:45, uh 10:00, 10:30? So, I'm taking
[00:54:02] all that data from every single stock that I trade that fits uh you know, that gapping criteria. And I'm tracking it. I'm trying to figure out is there a pattern? So, um from there I uh I run some stats and I figure out like uh you know, how far do they rip from the open percentage-wise, you know? And that's kind of uh I call it the money box. So, a lot of stocks they top out in my money box because my money box
[00:54:33] represents a range where this setup actually tops out and rolls over. And then I have my second money box is where they bottom out. Right? And it's like percentage from the open and at what time what what's the time range? So, a lot of them um rip up, you know, X amount of percent, you know, in this uh exact time uh time frame. And um so, one thing is like having that having that those stats and knowing them
[00:55:06] and then another thing is actually um calculating it, right? So, um I started learning how to code as well. So, those statistics that I have, I've built some some um indicators around them. So, that money box is actually visualized on my charts. So, whenever the stock is trading in that range, I can see it on the chart. So, that's another um edge that I have. So, yeah, definitely tracking
[00:55:36] and just trying to figure out the pattern, just trying to figure out if this is a um there's a repeatable pattern and then just finding a way to put it in my uh platform. So, maybe I'll get to a point where I'm good enough at um at coding that I can actually get my platform to enter the position for me. But, for now I just kind of it visualize it for me on a chart and it's a big edge. How often do you find that these types
[00:56:07] of moves play out in the same way, like at the same times during the day? Like you said, so one of the things you look at is, you know, if a stock gaps up this much then it might, you know, spike another, let's say, 2% before it rolls over. Like how do you find that that varies quite a bit, like there's a lot of room for error there, or do you find that it's quite often a fairly repeatable pattern? Like, if a stock gaps up, let's say, 5%
[00:56:38] it's a lot of times it's going to run another 2.5% but then there's also going to be a quite a few occasions where it goes, you know, 4% or I I don't know. Like, do you find I don't Does that make sense? Yeah, absolutely. So, that that number, that 4% or 5% it's not a line, it's a range. So, I take the average and I take the standard deviations, one up, one down from that average. So, it's more of a range where if the stock gaps up and then rips up
[00:57:08] anywhere from 4 to 6%. So, that's kind of that range where I'm interested. Uh it's a it's a it's surprisingly a very repeatable a repeatable pattern, uh but it's not the holy grail. It's not a signal for the entry, it's a signal for a look at me. Um this might be a setup. So, I line that up with um with the tape. So, if the tape says this is the top, then I'm starting my uh uh
[00:57:40] you know, starting to build a position there. But, if we're trading in that range, sometimes the tape says, "Hey, there's a lot of bidders here, and everybody's buying offer, and we're actually moving up." So, I'm stepping away. So, sometimes they keep squeezing up. Those are my outliers. Uh sometimes, pretty often, pretty often, they top out there. So, Yeah, I I think you explained that really well, actually, because obviously, you've got statistical analysis to back up your ideas, but then
[00:58:11] you've also got your tape reading skills, and your you know, actual trading abilities overlaid with that is where, you know, you feel as though you have a great edge. Yeah, it's not it it's not just uh tape reading, it's also um it's also fundamental analysis, uh just trying to run through their statements, and seeing like, what are they trying to do here? And sometimes it's like pretty laughable where they will drop a press release
[00:58:43] right after they dropped a secondary offering. So, they're dropping a press release just to pump up the stock so that they can dilute their shares. And it's hilarious sometimes what happens. So, it's fundamental analysis, it's statistical analysis, and it's tape reading. So, the more things that line up, and also just basic technical analysis, like looking at a daily chart. You know, what are the levels where it topped out previously? So, the more things that line up, the bigger
[00:59:14] um I'm willing the bigger the risk I'm willing to I'm willing to take. And you said before that you'd coded uh this this section on the chart, which you describe as the money box. Are there any other indicators or custom tools which you've developed uh that further help you with your trading? Yeah, there's another one. Um again, the more I talk about it, the more secrets I'm going to give away. There's one guy on Twitter that I that kind of introduced at least to me the
[00:59:45] idea of volume forecast. His name is um I got to give credit where credit is due. His name is All Day Faders. He's a pretty good follow on Twitter. Um he forecasts the volume for the stock. So, the idea is if the stock the volume of the stock breaks the forecast, that means there's unusual demand and it's probably going to go up. So, I've developed a similar one, but I call it the forecast 2.0 where I forecast the volume um at different times of the day for the
[01:00:17] end of the day. So, for example, at 9:40, the forecast says it's going to trade 10 million. At 9:50, the forecast says it's going to trade like 11 million. So, the forecast went up. So, that means that something has changed. Right? We're we've deviated from from like the normal kind of uh volume distribution. You know, and then at 10:00, the forecast says the stock is going to trade 14 million shares. Right? So, that
[01:00:47] again tells me, uh-oh, there's unusual demand going on in the stock, so it's probably going to squeeze. And a lot of times, they will hold, they will gap up, they'll spike, they'll kind of come down a little bit, and then hold, and then start squeezing because somebody was just holding it up. There was like unusual demand in the in the stock. So, that's another one. That's a brand new one. I'm still testing it out. This might be delving into your secrets a little too much, but how how are you trying to
[01:01:18] forecast the volume? Um just collecting just collecting the um, the volume at those times and comparing it to the end of the day and like finding a common denominator. So, yeah, whoever whoever wants to uh, create something similar, uh, I think they have enough information now to work with at this point. Now, I think a good question to ask you,
[01:01:48] Stan, is obviously trading has gone through several uh, evolutions. I think that's probably the reasonable word to use. Yeah. How have you gone about finding a new edge each time? Like when one thing which you've been doing is kind of dried up or has become less effective, you've used your ability to adapt and to find uh, another area of the market where you can make money. How do you how do you find these new areas?
[01:02:20] Um, I really don't want to get a job and that's my motivation. So, I just want to be I just want to trade and if something's not working, I need to find something else. So, I just do a lot of research. Like I go home and I rip through hundreds of charts and I read, you know, Twitter feeds and I ask questions and I watch different videos on YouTube. Uh, I'm just trying to find what what's moving. So, I just like going back to
[01:02:52] um, like what my cats is doing when he goes home and journals and like looks for what what's moving. I'm kind of trying to do the same thing. So, when those SSRs like stopped working for me in like last June, like I started, you know, I went through a you know, a little drawdown and it was uh, the first time I actually was down in a month, June 2018. Uh, that was rough. I was pulling a lot of um all-nighters just building spreadsheets, building that statistical
[01:03:23] uh like advantage, you know, building a database, and like seeing what's going on. And, you know, a a lot of people also helped me. I didn't do it just on my own. I figured it out on my own, but I did um get help from a couple of guys. I have a friend um on Twitter, JTrader. He helped me out a lot. I learned a ton from him. Uh a couple of other guys um you know, Mike Manjieri, by the way, he's um he's uh co-founder of the company. He
[01:03:55] said, "Listen, if you're losing money right now, like don't worry. Um I got you. Like if you need money, I'll just pay you and like like no big deal." So, he had my back. Um a lot of people don't know who's Mike Manjieri, but he's one of co-founders. Um you know, so I had like I had strong support, I would say. And people believed in me, and I believed in myself, and uh that's what it takes, you know, a lot of work and so you know, self-belief, I guess. That's a that's a pretty big deal for
[01:04:26] someone to offer you that. Like that's almost unheard of in sort of traditional prop trading arrangements. Yeah, for sure. Oh, that's really good, man. uh instills, you know, loyalty and uh you know, I love these guys. I like working with them and uh you know, that's how I treat uh traders that I uh work with right now. Kind of try to treat them with respect and trust. Yeah. Well, let's get into that because uh or maybe you're best to describe this, but you've so you were in New
[01:04:57] York, you're at the Seven Points office in New York, and now you're in somewhere in Florida. Yes, in Fort Lauderdale. Okay. And and what's the deal there? You've got a trading desk of your own, or what what's going on? Yeah, so uh what happened was basically, I mean, I lived in New York for a while and I wanted to get out of New York. It was very expensive. It's It's, you know, the weather's not that great. So, I just wanted to leave New York and um I was talking to my cats, Mike Mengiri,
[01:05:27] about leaving New York and we came to conclusion that we can set something up, something else. We can set up like a branch office. We picked Fort Lauderdale because it has a pretty high population growth and the median median age is pretty low. Like Florida's infamous for like people to retire and Fort Lauderdale is like the youngest city. So, we picked this city and also there's a lot of good colleges around. So, like finance finance colleges. So, we
[01:05:58] can recruit people. So, myself and I have a partner whose name is Krishna. We set up a branch office down here in Fort Lauderdale. Just, you know, just to trade, save a little bit in taxes also compared to New York. And we also started recruiting guys who want to trade with us. And um I I mean calling myself a mentor is I think is a little arrogant to be honest with you, but I guess we do play a role
[01:06:31] of of mentors because we we hire guys who are passionate who are passionate about trading but just need a little guidance. Just need, you know, to be surrounded by by profitable traders. So, right now we have three people on our desk trading live. Um and in total there's there's five of us and we have one more person right now studying to get the license. And we have a small team going going on
[01:07:02] here, yeah. And how does the team dynamic work? Cuz obviously you're each trading your own book, where does the team dynamic come into effect? So, the team dynamic is everybody comes in the morning and does their own research. And so, we prepare in the morning and then we share the watch list. Before the open, we're saying, "Okay, I'm watching this stock, this stock, that stock uh for for these reasons. These are the levels I'm watching." And um so, at the open, we're calling out setups. You know, this
[01:07:34] stock is topping out, this stock is, you know, forming a head and shoulders. Um you know, everybody has their own scanners, so they can say, "Oh, this, you know, Apple's making new highs." And okay, that's that's something that I want to watch or Krishna wants to watch. Uh so, we share setups, we like alert each other. You know, some somebody's missing something, we alert each other. If it's a Fed day today, stuff like that. Midday, we um we do a midday recap every single day
[01:08:06] um where each of us shares uh their screen and we put on the chart and we talk about our trades, our executions and everybody like kind of asks questions about the trade or gives some constructive criticism about the trade. And the idea is, if there's a mistake, uh we want that person to see that mistake, to point out that mistake and correct it for him if he doesn't see that mistake. Right? So, everybody like shares uh their trading
[01:08:37] uh midday. And then at the end of day, everybody journals and next day we repeat. So, we try to work as a team. Have there been any interesting observations from your point of view because you've now been with the firm for about four or five years and you know, when these three guys who you're kind of guiding, they I guess they're in a very similar situation to what you were when you started four or five years ago. You know, having the experience that you do now
[01:09:10] and looking back, it's almost I guess in some ways looking like looking back at yourself four years ago. I mean, are there any interesting observations which have come from that? I think that if a trader um I think that when a new trader has somebody to watch, you know, if if if the guy comes in and wants to trade small caps, but he doesn't really know how to approach them, he shadows me for a couple of weeks, you know, he has a much better understanding of the process. You know,
[01:09:42] if he doesn't have somebody to watch, if he's just trying to figure out on his on his own, then he has a much higher probability of just failing on his way to success. So, definitely like I think in New York, especially like there's a lot more traders. There's like 30 people or something like that. So, you will probably find somebody who trades similar setups as you do on that floor. So, you can you can kind of link up link up with that person and even trade together, you
[01:10:14] know, jump in a chat together or or sit next to each other and talk about trading together or even shadow each other. So, also what I do for my traders I record my screen every day and then I post it on our proprietary website just for my team. So, they can go back and rewatch the tape and rewatch how I executed their trades. And sometimes they record their screen and I rewatch it just to give some feedback. Okay. What about
[01:10:45] uh What about with regards to consistency? Like um you know, what are some of the things you some of the exercises or some of the things that you do with uh these three guys to help them improve their consistency. I think eliminating mistakes, um, just every day working on something very specific. If you're repeating the same mistake over and over, whether it's whether it's a technical error, you didn't see a level on the chart, or you
[01:11:17] hit the wrong hot key, or you were fearful to enter the trade, I want you I want them to know to be aware I want them to write it down, stick it on their monitor, and to actively work on eliminating, um, eliminating that mistake. Um, I think, uh, a trader should always be working on a project, whether it's a setup or your mindset or getting in the zone, like whatever it is, you can always trade better, and you should always be working on some
[01:11:47] project. I think, um, for me, like, for example, for me for 2018, my project was to size up, and I wasn't very consistent. I actually underperformed compared to 2017, I underperformed by a bit. I still had a a good year, but I wasn't as consistent because I was just trying to size up, and I was trying to to go for the home run every time with as, you know, big of a position as possible, and that hurt my consistency.
[01:12:19] So, my goal for for 2019 is to actually find a balance between being sized in, you know, full size, um, but at the same time get out at the right time, and like not be not be in the mindset of this is going to be a home run trade. If it's going to be a home run trade, I'm I'm probably going to have a half position. If it's not going to be a home run trade, I'll have a decent gain, but
[01:12:49] I'm not going to take a loss. Um, so for me personally um, just being in a mindset of maybe it's going to be a home run trade, maybe not, and I'm okay with it. That's going to help my consistency. If you had to look back on 2018, what would you say was some of the biggest lessons that you had? Like you look back on 2018, you say, you know, that was the year that I learned such and such. Was there anything which really stands out?
[01:13:20] Well, I added a bunch of uh trades to my toolbox, a bunch of setups. So, definitely I learned that that that I can trade. Um to be honest with you, I can size up, I can trade, and like if the market changes, I will adapt. And that's it, and all it takes is just a lot of sleepless nights and uh ripping through charts and talking to other traders. There's always money to be made somewhere. There you know, there's a lot of uh I've seen a lot of uh
[01:13:50] good traders stop making money and just give up uh just because that setup doesn't work anymore. You know, I used to trade with a couple of guys who were really really good, and they're not around anymore. Why? I don't know why, because they're maybe too lazy. They were too lazy to find a new setup. So, um I think the lesson for me is that if something stops working, there's another place to make money somewhere else. 100% man, and that you know, this is
[01:14:21] very much I know I've mentioned it already, but it kind of ties in with the uh the the interview I did with Jack Ma. You know, one of the big things he spoke about was about how you need trading skill and not just a trading strategy. Um Yeah. And that's kind of why I labeled the episode strategies die, skills survive. Um I agree with that. back to what you're saying there. Well, this has been a lot of fun and maybe we could try and do it again sometime. I think that that would be really good.
[01:14:53] Yeah, I'd be down for that. Okay, cool. So, if someone wants to find out more about you, follow along online, uh is there anywhere they can do that? Uh yes, uh I'm pretty active on Twitter, um ciocana trader, c i o c a n a trader, ciocana trader on Twitter and on Instagram. So, come check me out. Instagram, same handle? Exactly the same, ciocana trader. Okay, good stuff, man. Uh all right, let's call it a wrap. Thank
[01:15:24] you very much for doing the podcast. I appreciate it, Stan. Thank you very much, Aaron. You've reached the end of this episode of Chat With Traders, but rest assured, there are more episodes loaded with real market insight and zero hype on the way soon. So, to stay updated with each great new release, subscribe to the podcast in iTunes, and we'd love it if you'd leave a rating and review. We'll catch you next time on Chat With Traders.
