# 110: George, @RollyTrader – Learning to Trade, Momentum Setups, and Becoming a Venture Capitalist
# source: YouTube auto-captions (en-orig) https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=xn0-isz8vQA

[00:00:00] Chat with Traders, episode 110. This is your key to the minds of trading's elite performers, those who profit in relentless markets. Here on the Chat with Traders podcast, you'll hear about the skill sets and tactics that lead winning traders to win so you can level up and become a better trader. Here's your host, Aaron Fefield. [Music]
[00:00:31] Guys, I'd like to introduce a new and a really cool sponsor this week. That sponsor is Gemini. So, Gemini is the world's first fully regulated and fully licensed Bitcoin exchange for individual traders, investors, and institutions. Gemini have the security technology and regulatory oversight to provide a safer and a more trustworthy place to buy, sell, and store Bitcoin. For much more info and 1 month's worth of free
[00:01:03] trading, head to gemini.com/traders and register. That's geminis spelled gem mi ni.com/traders. Also remember I've struck up a deal with Edgewalk. Uh this is something that's ongoing. Edgewalk is a brilliant journaling tool built specifically for traders. So if you go to their site, you can actually see a full list of all the built-in features that will help you to track important trading metrics and
[00:01:33] analyze your performance. A lot of really essential stuff. Uh to find out more and purchase Edgewon, visit edgew.com and use the coupon code traders to save $20. Edgewalk is spelled E D G E W O N K. What's up? How are you doing team? First up, I hope you've all had a chance by now to listen to the previous episode, which was my interview with Edward Thorp. I mean, the man is a real life
[00:02:05] superhum. He has such an incredible story. If you haven't heard it yet, please make sure to check it out. Now, anyway, on this episode, I'm joined by George, who also goes by Rolley Trader on Twitter. George is an Australian equities trader with a momentum/swing trading type of approach. In the past, George has held a few finance related positions, but since late 2009, he's mostly been trading independently. During the interview, George and I got
[00:02:36] speaking about lessons he learned early on, the effect that coaching and mentoring has had on his trading, specifics about the setups that George trades, and also his involvement with venture capital, which was pretty cool to hear about. And as we do get quite specific on trading setups during the interview, I just want to give a friendly reminder, and that is you are entirely responsible for your own trading decisions. Please remember this guys. And that's it from me. Please
[00:03:06] welcome George for episode 110. Just shutting down now for a public holiday tomorrow. So just running through uh a few charts for for Friday. Excellent. Excellent. Yeah, we got Australia Day tomorrow. Uh any plans? I am having a couple people over here. So just with the with the family, with the children, nothing too exciting. Good stuff, man. Good stuff. Well, I'm also pleased to say that you're my first guest after however many episodes, hund
[00:03:37] and something episodes. Uh that's from New Zealand originally, although you're also living in Australia now like I am. But um yeah, very cool to have uh someone else who's from New Zealand on the podcast finally. I knew it would happen one day. So tell us a little bit about yourself. How did you get interested in trading? Uh when did this sort of start for you? I guess I was introduced as at a pretty young age with uh just with the family
[00:04:07] at home. We used to have a a sort of a trading competition when we were about four or 5 years old. I have a a brother 11 months older than me, so we're pretty competitive. And dad gave us uh $1,000 in the account. And we'd we'd sort of go through the newspaper every morning and which was a day delayed the data obviously and and pick a stock which normally would be one that sells ice cream or or something you'd know and we we'd track the prices and um I think that probably at a young age installed
[00:04:39] an interest and then after university well during university really really got into it. That was 2009. So, it was an interesting time in the markets there to to start sort of uh learning and and going through everything and and then I've really been sort of full-time at it since then. Excellent. So, was your dad bit of an investor himself then? He was. He's he's certainly not as a trader or he dabbles in the stock market, but um no, not not as a trader,
[00:05:13] which I guess is sort of what I do today. he uh just has an interest in in business and probably sort of wanted us to have an interest in in understanding value or or perceive value. Okay. And so I've got to ask who won out of you and your brother. How'd the competition play out? Well, I believe I won, but um we we'll let that be a debate for the Christmas table, but he uh he got a little bit bored of cutting out the numbers and sticking them on on the wall. So, I don't actually know what
[00:05:44] happened to his account. It might have uh might have had a good compounded return by now if he held held uh Telra, the New Zealand Teleico stock. That's funny. So, you said you got really serious about trading, you know, a little later in life at university. What sort of things did you start doing? You know, when you say you started to get serious about it, um what did that sort of look like? I had a friend who was he was a few years older and he was trading and he he just he was a very he was a good rugby player and a very
[00:06:15] competitive person and he just sort of I guess sold me on the idea that it was the ultimate game and I'd always always been interested and I guess was learning about it probably more from the economic standpoint rather than a um a fluid uh market standpoint. And so I went and spoke to to my father and and one of his friends and he said he he knew someone who was a asset manager in New Zealand. He said look why don't you go and have a chat with him. He'll be able to tell you
[00:06:47] you know how it really works. Uh, so I did that and and he put me on to a few books which started at the market wizards the the first edition they did and and I read all them and I guess from then on in I I knew it was for me and and the journey started just read everything I could and you know had I had an account open but it hadn't you know really been doing anything and you're kind of throwing darts and I guess with the progression of of technology you you were able to for
[00:07:19] someone who wasn't 100% committed able to start studying with with real data rather than just reading. So that that got me going and then when I had the ability to put a bit of money into the account did that and uh and then yeah went from there. Right. So how did that conversation go with uh the asset manager you spoke with in New Zealand? Well, he basically said, you know, this this will will beat you up if you try and do this and this is what you need to focus on and it's he
[00:07:52] said everyone thinks they're going to get rich quickly, but it's just not how it works and if you if you have that mentality, you know, you'll be refunding your account very often. Um, and they were certainly more of a conservative, you know, big fund manager. Um, and so he he said, you need to firstly pick your style of what sort of trader you want to be. Do you want to be a, you know, a a conservative investor? Do you want to be fundamentals? Do you want to be momentum based, a day trader, currency, stocks? So, and I think a lot
[00:08:23] of people actually um certainly ones that I've I've helped or have seen over the years, they take too long to pick exactly who they are in the stock market and and it causes style drift, which I think is is a really a big issue for for you know, traders in their first few years. they'll be day trading the index and then calling themselves a stock investor or you know trading the Aussie dollar and it just doesn't work. You've got to dedicate your life to really to one
[00:08:55] asset class as far as I'm concerned and and maybe you know you'll be able to master that after a while. So why do you think that that style drift actually occurs in the first place? I don't think it does with professionals. Um certainly the people that have trained me don't they they trade one style or one asset class. Um, I mean, obviously it can happen in in bigger organizations, but you'll normally have a specialist for each um each individual
[00:09:25] class, but I think it's people staring at a screen with lots of flashing lights coming at them all day long who read a tweet or are listening to CNBC and hear, you know, the Aussie dollar's going to do something tomorrow or it's doing it now. And and there's just that temptation to gamble because you know you if you've got a trading plan you you won't be you won't be trading currency and stocks and commodities. Well 99% of people won't be you know the exception
[00:09:57] to the rule who can do it. You know that's fine for them but the market works on probability rather than exceptions. So, I mean, in my opinion, it's it's better to choose at least narrow it down to a currency trader, a stock trader, and then you can hone in on your style. So, that would be sort of your advice for preventing or reducing the the temptation of style drift is to just pick one asset class and really sort of zoom in on that. Absolutely. I mean, I the just the
[00:10:29] mental and emotional costs. I mean, I I've, you know, I've made every mistake there is as a trader. So, I can speak from my own experience. You'd you'd be trading, you know, the the stock market and you'd have your 5m minute chart maybe of the the XJO or or um the E- Mini or whatever it was up there and you might see a trade which potentially makes sense and all of a sudden you're day trading the index and you just you can't be focused on so many things at one time. I'd noticed that I would really just be making the broker
[00:11:01] money. Um, you know, losing a bit here, making a bit there, but all of a sudden I'd miss that one or two trades, which, you know, would be the good trades in in the stock account. So, it's yeah, it's it's not what a newcomer to the stock market should be doing. Um, and the temptation will be there. So, uh, one of my mentors always said to me, he doesn't even look at the index. He said, "If you can't tell what the stock market's doing by how the leading names are acting, you shouldn't really be a stock trader." And
[00:11:31] I think that that's very true. And um I I had to go through a period where I actually just shut off the index and and didn't look at it because there was just the opportunity to trade it was too great. And and once I stopped doing that, um, my results really started to turn because all of a sudden I just I could narrow my focus down to one or two particular setups and and just try to master them. Yeah. Yeah. Okay. And I think the the key word uh in your response there being uh focus for sure.
[00:12:02] Yeah. Now the asset manager you spoke to in New Zealand uh you said that he uh recommended a few books that you read. Uh those of course been uh some of the market wizards books. Do you remember what any of the other books were that he recommended to you? Uh the Livermore um the reminiscent sort of stock operator and then the other the shorter book. I I forget its name. And then I actually went from there and sort of found who these market wizards were and
[00:12:33] and if they had then gone on to to write books. um and a few of them had. So, so started reading them and I guess got my my style sort of based off the William O'Neal um can slim model and then that slowly progressed on to to people like Mark Menovini and Gil Morales um who I guess have a slightly more refined and updated version. Um, and and that's really my exact style. I've I copied
[00:13:03] them, have um have added a few of my own little intricacies and and adopted it for the Australian market. Now, at some point, I presume we're probably jumping forward a couple years, you actually picked up a job working at an investment bank. Um, can you tell us a bit about the sort of things you were doing uh inside of the investment bank? Well, I was I was on the M&A side there and and we we had a trading division, so I sort of found myself hanging around the trading division the whole of the day. Uh we were in the the corporate
[00:13:35] finance side. So when I moved uh back over to Australia, got on to an institutional desk um at a firm here uh advising a couple of institutions and and writing reports for them. So, I guess that's when it it started to get serious and and that gave me a really good insight into how the big money moves, where they're buying, how they're buying, and why they're buying. Right. And you said um when we were speaking prior to now, you said that a
[00:14:06] lot of the people who were on the desk with you and who you worked with laughed at the idea or almost laughed at the idea of using charts. Can you tell us a little bit about the mindset there? Yep. the I think there was there was over a hundred brokers or you well brokers would be the right word and I think we had one technical analyst uh and there was probably 15 fundamental analysts and there just wasn't much attention paid to to any of the work done there and
[00:14:36] the the firm wasn't it was sort of a traditional traditionally old Australian brokerage where it was blue chips um there was a couple small cap operators there who did this. But yeah, it just it wasn't I never went to a morning meeting and heard anyone say, you know, this sector's sitting up. There's a whole bunch of names about to move. Um you know, this charts breaking down. It it just wasn't wasn't discussed. And I by that time I I felt reasonably
[00:15:06] comfortable trading with charts and and I just couldn't get over it. and especially through the GFC when you could you know it was pretty obvious um looking at the charts that the market had topped even if you even if you're 3 months late on it that you're in a beer market and I just saw you know so many people not necessarily at that firm but just wherever just buying those first dips buying the second dip and and they just got they got their head torn off and it it's just something that you can avoid I think I mean you might you know
[00:15:39] you might get sucked in and trade a couple of the the rallies back in. But you know that the good traders wouldn't the good traders made money in in that year rather than lost 60 or 70% which sadly happened to a lot of people. So when did you decide to go out on your own and and when did you actually feel comfortable to make that that leap if you will? Um I went out in 200 late 2009 and traded for myself for a while and
[00:16:10] then started trading for um a private equity firm and we I was probably more lucky than smart but was able to to piggy back on the back of the the gold equities run and and uh the rear earth were very strong sectors in in that sort of 12 to 18 months. So, we were lucky that we had a a good couple of years and and then that allowed me to completely go out on my own uh after after I'd done that.
[00:16:42] Now, at some point during all of this, you had a mentor, which you've already kind of mentioned, Mark uh how do I pronounce his last name? Minenni. Mark Minovveni. He was featured in uh one of the Market Wizards books, I believe. How did he kind of help you out? How did you come across him? How did you get to know him? tell us a little bit about how that came about. Well, first we, my wife and I, uh, she was my partner at the time. Um, we moved over to to Argentina. There was a a guy
[00:17:12] who I knew who had managed a a fund for Soros for a while and he was over there and I thought it was a good chance to go and pick his brain and um, we were starting to trade the US market. So the time zone worked and while I was there had made a list of the the best traders that were alive and sort of broke them you know letters or emails or read their books however I could get in communication with them and the first uh one actually to respond was a guy Mark Cook who was also a market wizard. he
[00:17:44] was a day trader. Um, and he responded and so I went over to Ohio to see him. Um, and he trained me up in in I guess day trading. He was I mean just the most amazing day trader that it didn't fit my trading style but um certainly learning the the discipline and his daily ritual and and how he he views the market and almost the simplicity in what he does.
[00:18:15] You know I was still 26 27 at the time. you know, you kind of think there's this edge that potentially these big guys have that you just, you know, you might not ever get or you might you might not be able to get. And after that was a big turning point in my trading when I saw how he traded. It was just so simple yet he will probably go down as, you know, one of the greatest day traders of all time with an audited performance and and so that that was a huge turning point
[00:18:46] for me. And then with uh with Mark Mini, it was the same same sort of thing. Read his books. Um got in contact and he said, "Look, we do, you know, some programs once a year or they just started doing them." So went over and did that and I went back last year actually um to see him. And he they do services and stuff like that that you can subscribe to um online. But I I think as a as a new trader, getting that early mentorship or direction from
[00:19:18] someone is is just so important because you can spend so long making so many easy mistakes and you're always going to make them, but at least if you have someone guiding you or giving you a blueprint, you should be able to identify when you're making them earlier and hopefully stop them. Um, and so yes, so I I mean I've just I learned so much of those two guys. Um, over over the time I subscribe to to um Mark's website now. He he puts a few of
[00:19:50] his trades up and does a great webinar every every week. Um, you know, it is quite expensive for newcomers, so that might not suit suit everyone, but there's certainly a lot of decent people out there. And I think it's important just to to find someone with an audited um performance and if it suits you, you know, you can you can start to sort of mimic their style and then of course you adapt that as you go on. But I mean there's no need to to you know reinvent the wheel here. There's since Livermore
[00:20:20] to Daros to Woff to Morales to Minavini to O'Neal there's not that many deviations in their trading style. I mean, of course, there is, but they're looking at the same things. Good stories, good charts, pivotal points to buy them. Um, you know, controlling the risk. That's really incredible. I had no idea that uh you knew Mark Cook and had traded with him. That's uh that's really cool. Um and I'd like to go back to that point because you said that you you know
[00:20:50] were there, you were on site with him and you you saw him actually trading and how he does things. At what point did you know that day trading wasn't for you? You, you know, Mark Cook is a day trader. He was showing you sort of how he goes about things. And even though you said it was a very simple, uh what he does is so simple. Um you still said that it's something that just still wasn't for you. How do you know it wasn't something for you? Well, I I had day traded before then and I I sat there live trading with Mark and so I could
[00:21:23] mimic his trades and he gave us his, you know, his five or six setups. Um, so you knew exactly what he's doing. I Well, the time zone was a bit of an issue when I came back to Australia because he really was the bonds and the e- mini um and didn't move outside of them. That was it. And he was the master of those. I it didn't work with my my personality. I I don't like riding the ticks. I like to be able to to buy something, put my stop in or my alert in
[00:21:54] whatever I might have and go and have a cup of tea or um you know go and go and do something which isn't just staring at the screen. So day trading was was never going to work work for me despite the fact that you know I trained with one of the the best guys there is. It just I I don't think I would have been able to make money out of it. My personality would have lent to me not following the system well enough because if you're day trading, you really you can't have any deviations from from your rules. I think
[00:22:25] the stock market's a little more forgiving um and a little more flexible. So, for someone of my my makeup um that was where I wanted to be. And when you were trading with Mark in on his on site in his office, wherever that might have been, uh, is that something that you actually paid for or did you just somehow be able to form a relationship with him and sort of get your foot in the door that way? How'd that opportunity come about? Because, you know, people listening to this, they're like, you know, you made a
[00:22:56] list of the best traders in the world and then you sort of tried to reach out to some of them and, you know, spend time with them. you know, it's um it's quite incredible that you were able to, you know, get that time with Mark. So, I'm just curious how that actually panned out. Well, I've done both with Mark. He's a friend now. I actually nearly got him over here to Australia to come into a conference and we he he was ready to come, but we we the demand just didn't seem there, which surprised me. I mean, you know, it's
[00:23:27] just such an opportunity to sit with them. Uh, um, Mark, when I went over, uh, it was for a pay program. Um, I don't recall the exact cost, but it was it was between five and and $10,000 or something like that. Um, and then obviously, you know, you you can establish whatever relationship you want going going for from there. And there was there was a couple of us who did that. And it was for for a week over there. And yeah, it it it's I think it's
[00:24:00] really worth doing and you might not have to go to America to go and do it. Um I'm sure there's some good people here in Australia, but it is just formulating what his daily ritual was and seeing how he prepared every morning. Um and and and the same goes for for Mark Manovveni. Um he does he does a paid service. Uh and you can this or last year went and traded with him and you know just the calmness that you see these guys in um it's just it's a second
[00:24:34] nature to them. It either the alert either goes off or it doesn't. There's there's no stress. It's just that that trade works. You're you're either right or you're wrong in it and then you just repeat repeat repeat. But I mean you know these guys are masters of what they've been doing. I've probably taken that trade tens of thousands of times. So, it's it's just a a repeat model. So, with Mark Manovveni, what was some of the really big things that he taught you or things that you picked up from him? Um, I know it's kind of bit of a
[00:25:05] cliche question, but was there anything that really sort of stands out as being sort of that's the reason why he's a good trader? Oh, Mark's I mean, he's he's he's just a great trader. He he's very mathematical. So he has his his couple of setups which he uses the VCP's a big one and he'll take that and and over and over again just the same repetitive pattern and then just how he scales in scales out of
[00:25:36] positions how he's always looking you know to be a 2:1 trader. So that means he's you know he's got to be right half the time and his average gain has to be twice his average loss. Um, and I think once as a trader, once you work out that, uh, you you keep your scorecard, as he used to put it, where you record every trade, how long you're in the trade, you what the results were, and you analyze that just religiously, weekly, monthly, quarterly, you you very quickly pick up
[00:26:06] where your your faults are. So, he four or five years ago when I first went over to see him, just really drilled that in. and and it helps as I mentioned it helps see your own weaknesses. So it's the deviations between making 0% return and 20% return are not that significant if you if your average loss moves from 10 to to 7% that can have just such a compounding effect. So, I think that was a big one. And again, just the
[00:26:36] discipline. There's just, you know, I I can't I don't want to speak for Mark at all. Um, but I just can't imagine him taking a trade outside his system. Like, it just would not happen. So, and same with with um with Mark Cook. Just a short break here, folks. I want to give mention to our new sponsor, Gemini. Just like I mentioned right at the beginning, Gemini is the world's first fully regulated and fully licensed
[00:27:06] Bitcoin exchange for individual traders and investors as well as institutions. So with regulatory oversight, you know full well Gemini have a real commitment to ensure clients Bitcoin stays safe and secure. Also for algorithmic traders, you may be particularly interested to know Gemini provides a full suite of API connectivity options which you can leverage and test your trade ideas with. But to learn heaps more about Gemini and
[00:27:37] trading Bitcoin, all you need to do is visit gemini.com/traders and register to get a month's worth of trading without fees. And take note, their client service team is available around the clock to assist with any inquiries and questions. Just to repeat, the link to visit is gemini.com/traders. Gemini being spelled gem m i n i. Something you said to me, again referring to a conversation we had uh
[00:28:09] prior to this this call we're on right now. Um, you said that probably around about 80% of mistakes that particularly newer traders make are avoidable. Why do you say this? And how are they avoidable? Well, I I guess the big mistakes for for a momentum based trader such as such as myself is you should be able to buy at the at the danger line. So, at the the point where the trade becomes active.
[00:28:41] So, I mean, if you if you limit your your buy above that point to 3%, so let's say your alert goes off and immediately it's it's gone 3 or 4%. If you just don't take any over that bracket there, that'll reduce your ching. And one of the big the big things which affected my trading which really improved my numbers was was violation. So, if you do buy it right, uh, and the stock pulls in on you straight away, you
[00:29:11] you'll have your stop loss in play. But, um, what what are the only times to get out before your stop loss is triggered? And I still see, um, some guys I I talk to a bit about trading, like you you'll still see them buy perfectly, the stock pulls in 3 or 4%, they go, "I got it, it's not working, close the position out, and 2 weeks later it's up 30%." So, I mean that that's just two ways of just right there of you you've bought the thing right, but you're not a chasing and you're not b choking the
[00:29:43] trade off too early. So, you're giving it a chance to work. Um, and so I think I think most people, as we've discussed already, who go into trading, they style drift. So, they'll instead of focusing on on say that particular setup, they'll be intraday trading the the S&P or or the Aussie dollar. Um, so you know, if you don't chase, you stick to your setup, you trade one asset class, um, don't add to losing trades and and don't trade against trend. Um, you know, right right there, uh, you you've got a pretty
[00:30:16] good chance of surviving and and it just comes down to risk management. Um and and I think you know most people have tried to go out or or trade on their own who haven't been mentored have been told you know this is a stock to buy and they just keep buying it on the way down and the the effect of a stock that falls 50% has to go up 100%. Everyone sort of knows that old adage. So if you if you get yourself into trouble early it's it's quite a a big hole to dig yourself
[00:30:46] out of. So another thing I've found as well moving back from cash uh when you when you are forced to cash by the market is is just to come back incrementally. So you know you I talk to people and they'll say oh everything looks good again we'll quickly go 100% long and and that's how you can have big draw down happen big draw downs happen. So, if I'm if I'm coming back in from cash and I'm seeing a couple of leading names set up and the index is still going sideways, uh, and I see a few more
[00:31:18] leading names set up, I'll I'll try one or two out and if they're not working, I'm not going to be adding any more positions. So, I'll let the market tell me to to be adding um rather than just having a view that things are things are fine now and I quickly need to to get back into the market. Okay. I actually really like that point. So you're talking about in periods where you might not have any trades on and you're entirely in cash and you start to see some names setting up. You don't just, you know, put trades on every name that you see. You're just sort of slowly
[00:31:50] building your positions back up. Is that did I understand that correctly? That's right. I mean, my my system works very much on following leadership. So what are the leading sectors? What are the leading names in the sectors? What's driving the market internally? I I couldn't care what the index is doing. If it's under high distribution, I'm I'm not going to be in and there's pretty high chance that there's very few names sitting up constructively. So, it doesn't happen. But if I if say uh I remember the index last year looked like
[00:32:21] it was going to break out through uh through 56 or 57. I I forget and all of a sudden we had a bunch of distribution set up in the pivot and the leading name started failing. So, I went back to cash. Um, and it was another sort of 6 weeks until we got a a turn and the leading name set up while the index was still finding a bottom. Tried one or two out. You know, you you're up quickly in them or or they go sideways or they go down. If I get stopped out on those one or two names, well, the
[00:32:53] market's telling me that it's not ready to go or that my uh criteria is faulty. and um you know now uh I don't think that's the case. So it's it's the market telling me that it's it's not ready to move yet. And so you can keep if you're taking a 10% position size and let's say you've got a 10% stop, you know, you lose on both those two trades, you drop 2%. It's it's not the end of the world. You can recover from that. But what you don't want to do is go 100% long, get
[00:33:23] stopped out of, you know, everything pretty quickly and and drop 10 or 15%. Okay. So, you're obviously talking about risking 1% of your capital on each trade. That that was just an example. Uh but yes. Yeah. Okay. So, now is probably a good point to actually talk uh some specifics about your actual strategy. So, you know, just from a high level, how would you describe your style of trading? I'm not actually sure. I guess it's a momentum momentum based trading approach where I look for strong sectors, strong
[00:33:56] company stories, strong earnings, strong revenue growth and then I will always always use a chart to get in. And I I only have a couple of entry points. I have the volatility contraction pattern which is from um from Mark Manini. So if anyone's interested in that, you can buy his book and and read about it. He goes in depth about that. And that's effectively a breakout trade. Um, and then I use a a pocket pivot which comes from um from Gil Morales and and Chris
[00:34:26] Catcher. Uh, and then and then sort of a pullback buy method where the stock is already trending. I've already initiated a position from a breakout and I'm buying off the first pullback to the moving average when it's obeyed um on the uptick. So, I wait for the the higher close of the previous bar and and really I mean well on the long side anyway that's that's about it um that I have and and there's just no shortage of
[00:34:56] of trades to find. So, it's never a problem that am I not getting enough stuff setting up? There's there's always stuff setting up when the market when I should be in the market. If there's nothing setting up, well, that's the market telling me something. So by, you know, sticking to this process, you you automatically eliminate those times when you shouldn't be in the market, when you should just be sitting on your hands or um short of if you like to short uh stocks and can do it properly.
[00:35:27] Okay. And we've already established that you're not a day trader, so you're probably fit more into the category of what we' call a swing trader. Yes. Yeah. Okay. And what markets are you trading? just the Australian markets. Um, I trade the US as well. Uh, I I did trade the US primarily for a few few years, but um, you kind of get a bit worn out doing that now. Uh, just because of the time zone difference. So, so I trade the Australian markets and
[00:35:59] I'll I'll run through my US stocks tonight and and as I said, I I chat with um with Mark Manovveni and um with Gil and stuff over there. So, you know, if if they're looking at something decent or posting something decent on on one of their sites, you know, I'll have a look and and if I need to put an order on, I will. But, uh, probably 90% of myself will be in Australia these days. Okay. And tell us a little bit about how you how you scan, how you actually go about finding uh potential trading
[00:36:31] opportunities like stocks that are setting up uh in accordance with your uh criteria. Well, you can write you can write code in in basically any charting package these days. So, I I um have probably 15 different scans and I use four religiously and I'll just be looking for basically inflection points. So, um for a pocket pivot there's there is just set criteria. It's um you're looking at a
[00:37:03] 10day back period for volume. you've got to have higher volume than any down day and the stock needs to come from below the 10day moving average to close above it on that volume. So, you can write code to find that. The VCP um a little bit harder to write code, but you're basically looking for a pivot. So, you're looking for tightness and price and contraction in volume as well as a contraction in the pattern. So, I I try to write my code relatively loosely and then I I go through four or 5 thousand charts a day and um a lot of them are
[00:37:36] the same chart. So, I'll I'll do my at the end of the day I'll I'll run all my scans, build watch lists based on um how they're setting up um the duration of the base. Uh, so I might have four active lists which would move from, you know, potentially buyable in the next 2 weeks to this list will probably go today. And then I'm just adding and subtracting names from those lists. Uh, and and it's still, you know, there's no easy way in the
[00:38:10] stock market that I've found. The scans certainly have have helped improve. I mean those those old guys that had to go through them by hand or draw the charts, you know, that that's real work. But it's just repetition going through you build your chart eye up all of a sudden you just see that pattern that you know you know based on your scorecard is a good pattern to take and and so that's what I do. So I do that every night. Then I'll go through them in the morning with a fresh eye again. Um see if I've missed something and then put my alerts on. um and then you know sit down at the
[00:38:43] desk and and watch a documentary and wait for the alerts. Okay. So, just so I understood that correctly, you are you're not manually looking through four to 5,000 charts. That's how many sort of tickers you're feeding into your your scans. Is that right? I I'm manually going through them. So, you you can scroll. I I've talked to people about this and they they didn't actually know this existed, which I just I find crazy, but um just the scroll button on your mouse,
[00:39:14] you know, I can scroll through 50 charts in probably a minute, minute and a half. So, I'll just have them set up on the the daily time frame and the weekly I'll have 50 on each list cuz that's the max list can provide from the software. and I'll just scroll down those 50 and it only takes one two seconds to look at a chart to know if it it interests me. Um a and so most don't. So and then it's just going through maybe them again in a day a couple of times. But yeah, so so
[00:39:45] it is still a manual process and then with the fundamental filter um there's better software in the US. the Australian market doesn't quite have the MarketSmith platform or the H uh HGSI platform where you can sort of scan for certain certain earnings and um earnings increases and return on equity and and cash levels and all that. So we just wrote something in Excel which pulls data uh from a provider there and and
[00:40:16] that will help identify to us what what sectors may be having the highest revenue lift or what companies are having the biggest quarterly increases in earnings or or revenue and as I said then run them over um put them through the charts and if if they're not ready they're not ready if they are they they go to one of the watch lists. Okay. So, are you using Excel only or are you using an actual software uh charting package too? Excel is just to pull the fundamental
[00:40:46] numbers, the charting packages. Um I I know Trade Station are uh the sponsor with you. We have Trade Station, I got CQG, got Pro Realtime, I've got a few. So, you can write it doesn't matter what system you write it in. They're sort of, you know, they're all the same. Um and then you just you just scan for them and it'll pop up a list. and you just got to click through them. So, if we were to look at your chart, if we were sitting in your computer chair right now looking at your screens, what sort of technical indicators and
[00:41:17] technical analysis would we see on your charts? I'm just really a price and volume person. And so, I I don't really look at RSI um or MACD. I do have an MACD just for my intraday when I'm moving into a position. But for me really all I need is is price and volume and moving averages. And I use the moving averages as reference points. Uh where a stock should be accumulated from where it the
[00:41:49] base is or where the price in the base is sitting. Is it sitting on top of a moving average? Is is the price chopping down through the moving average? Because when a stock's trending, institutions will be buying it. So, they'll normally be holding a certain price point. Um, whether that be the 20-day EMA or if it's trending hard, you know, the the 10day. And that also gives you a reference point to to trail a stop or or if you think that that immediate term trend is has shifted or changed. Uh, so
[00:42:20] yeah, there's it's pretty simple what I do. It's it's it's volume analysis and price analysis and and base analysis. Okay. So once you've identified a name which you you see as a trading opportunity, what actually serves as your confirmation signal to get into a position? So I'm normally using a pivot point. So most setups that I'll buy will have a contraction through the range. So, if
[00:42:50] you think about it like a a cup shape, like what you'd see on a cup and handle, I really want to see at least two cups, if not three or four, with each cup getting smaller as it moves to the right of the chart. Um, and through there, um, I want to see the range of price also contract. So it should just look like three little mini cups coming into each other because that's telling me that the
[00:43:20] supply is is diminishing. So there's not so many people willing to sell their stock at that. So the weak hands are being weeded out. I've I'm only buying uptrending stocks. So you're going to have less of, you know, likelihood of that really bad news result. I'm not buying stocks that have ever had a gap down in the price. I just stay away from them. And then finally, when the stock is setting up for me, it should have a big dry up in volume and the price ideally just goes super tight for a
[00:43:51] couple of days. And that might only be one day. It could be three or 4 days. And then I'll just set my alert above above that little pivot point. And when that goes through there, I'm buying. So, you set an alert and then you put an order in once you obviously check it out and see if that's something you want to be in. Uh, you don't actually have orders waiting in the market to catch that. It it depends on the stock. A lot of the smaller stuff in Australia, it it's too risky with the spread. And a
[00:44:23] bigger stock, obviously, no problem. But no, I I generally manually put it in. I still have that discretionary um opinion where I'll look and go right, yep, that's ready to go. That's not. And so, you know, the the negative of that, I guess, is if you get multiple signals at a time, but I mean, that very very rarely happens. So, my my computer will just start beeping at me and and that's time for me to um you know, start pressing a few buttons. right now. I
[00:44:55] might just mention um it might be helpful for those who are listening and actually want to visualize some of these things that uh we're discussing here. Um so you post a lot of these setups and a lot of charts on Twitter. So I was going to suggest if um you want to actually see what this looks like, sort of struggling a little bit to visualize it in your head, check out uh your Twitter feed. What's your Twitter handle? Uh it's @ Rolley R O L L Y Trader. Okay, excellent. Rolley Trader. Now,
[00:45:28] just still on the point about entries, what happens if you miss your ideal entry point? As we discussed before, that's that's something that'll be in my trading plan, which is another thing I think you have to have. So, it's basically rule book for your trades. Um and it was something that that Mark Cook just drumed into your head. if you don't have one, you won't survive. And I I think it's very true. So for me, if it goes 4% past there, that's it's off the table. I just won't take it. So it's it's as simple as
[00:45:59] that. And often you'll get a pullback, what I would call a pullback buy where the stock breaks out and then it'll pull back and to retest that um that breakout level. And so I'll keep it on the watch list and, you know, be ready to to buy it potentially off off another setup that happens during during its run. But um yeah, I'm not going to chase anything. Okay. So if price has moved more than 4% beyond your actual ideal entry point, yeah, you leave it. If it comes back into that
[00:46:31] zone and retest the breakout point, um then you may consider taking an entry then. Yeah. If what I want to see is I don't want to ever buy on weakness. So if it comes back in and and tests that breakout point, I'm waiting for the next day for the the close or for the intraday to be above that previous day's high. Got it. Okay. Now, how do you determine your risk and your position size for
[00:47:01] each trade that you put on? Well, there's there's a formula called optimal F, and if you put in your trading stats, uh that will tell you the optimal position size you should be taking based off your your um your performance. But for me, generally, broadly speaking, I I don't like to trade more than 8% in a position. Um, and that that's on the
[00:47:32] initial position. If I'm in a name that goes up quickly, obviously that will increase your your exposure just through its return. Um, but I I will go up to 20% into one stock. Um, if if I get multiple setups in there, but just how the market's been the last couple of years, it it's been very choppy. It hasn't paid to pyramid your positions. has been more of a swing traders market. So that that's pushed me back. When there was uh
[00:48:02] some stuff trending in 2010 and 112 um my approach was slightly different and and you've just got to adapt with the market. I mean, you know, you have your trading rules, but they they have to be adapted because the market's dynamic. Um and it it it's not the same. It it changes all the time, but you know, yet the character remains the same. So you can operate with with similar setups and similar criteria, but there's there's right and wrong times to to implement implement those criteria.
[00:48:35] Okay. And I just want to clarify something when you said that when you mentioned 20%, that doesn't actually mean that you're risking 20% of your capital, does it? Oh, no. God, no. Well, I I guess effectively you are if it announced something and and went to zero, but um no, my my average stock will be or is about 6 1/2%. So, um you know, if I'm let's just call it 10% to make it easy. So, if you're taking a 10% position size, your risk um with a 10% stop is is
[00:49:09] 1% of your total capital. And I think that's that's a good place to start. you probably want to be between half a percent and and 2% depending on your experience and and your trading style. But if you go too much smaller, you you know, it's hard to to make those big gains. And if you go bigger, you know, you're asking for trouble because you're going to have that occasional stock that gaps down on you and you're of course going to have a lot of losing stocks. So, um, yeah, controlling risk is is the
[00:49:41] number one factor, I think, in a in a successful trader. Anyone can work out how to buy a VCP or a pocket pivot or anything like that, but if you don't control the risk and and don't know how to incrementally scale in and scale out of the market, um, you know, you're you're going to deal with big draw downs. Yeah. Yeah. Um, now you you mentioned or you brought up optimal F uh as a formula for having sort of optimal position sizing. Yeah. Where can we find out more info about
[00:50:12] that? What is optimal F? I've never heard of that. I just say Google. I use one through um actually through Mark Maven's site. He has a calculator on there. And so, yeah, so if you put in that your average gain is 15%, your average loss is is 7%, and your win loss ratio is 50%. Um, and you your target is to make a, you know, a 50% return this year, it'll say, well, you'll probably need to do 80 trades at
[00:50:45] 11% position size or or whatever it is. Um, so that's disappointing, but I mean, you probably don't need to get as complicated as as that. Um, I think you know the the general rule of thumb is is probably 5 to 10% for most people that you see on on what position size as a percentage of their portfolio they should take and and then uh yeah, your risk obviously depends on what what nature of stock you're trading. A lot of people in Australia trade the the really micro cap names and you know they they
[00:51:18] award good returns but you know the spread on them can be 10% alone. So, it's hard to to be a a real risk manager when the bid and ask can stop you out. And I I I think that's another um pitfall of of new traders is to go into those penny stocks. uh you you're better to trade the leading names and develop your skills, you know, trading them, trading the the Domino's pizzas or the
[00:51:50] um you know, the the midcap leading names, the aristocrats. Uh and and you're not going to get the big the big moves. Well, Domino's probably proves me wrong there, but um you're not going to get them so quickly. And I think a lot of people like that gambling feel where they go into a 1 cent stock and it goes up to 2 cents and you know they they think they've done something right. Yeah. Uh so just going to the other end of the trade now. How do you determine your exit points?
[00:52:21] Selling's very very hard and something I'm certainly uh work in progress. But for me again your average gain will dictate a lot. what you know that you know you your scorecard says that you make and also a multiple of risk. So if I'm if I'm risking um you know call it 1 in and which might be 5% and all of a sudden I make 20% I'll I'll definitely be be selling partial into that and then
[00:52:54] it depends on how quickly it moves. If it if it moves up 20% and then in 2 or 3 days I'll I'll probably sell a big portion of that into it. If it's a nice orderly chart and slowly drifting up, I'm probably adding to it. Uh and then finally to get out, I'll use a moving average. So that will depend on on the trend of of the name I've bought. If it's if it's holding the 20-day um on the first test, you know, and then it breaks down through it on its second test, that's that's when I'll get out.
[00:53:25] Okay. So, it's fair to say that your exits involve quite a bit of discretion. Yeah, they do. It it depends. It depends on the nature of the market. I mean, uh, a name for example that we've been or I've been tweeting a bit lately that I and and CIA, um, that was a a power play setup, which is a, um, a particular setup where the stock moves 100% in in less than 8 weeks and then has a a base less than 25% and
[00:53:56] then resets up a base. So, most people think it's way too extended, but it's actually quite a good good probability trade. were buying that CIA at at50 and it just ran straight to a dollar um in probably the last week. Uh so I was actually selling a bit today and I sold a bit uh two days ago and you know there's sort of no rules there. It had it had three gap ups in a row and and it's just moved so hard and so I'm
[00:54:26] just going to bag some and and let the rest ride. Ideally, I I want to move my stop to break even as soon as I soon as possible. So, if I'm up 10% in a trade, um I I'll just try to reduce my risk immediately. So, bring the stop up. If it if it moves up 15 20, I might sell 25% of if it forms a new base, I'll just add back. I'll buy more. So, again, it's just incremental incremental selling, incremental buying, reducing risk where I can.
[00:54:56] Well, sounds like a good trade to be in. Well done. Now, you said a little earlier or you hinted that most of your trades are on the long side. I'm interested to hear the reason for this. Why do you prefer trading the long side and rarely trade the short side? There's been a few occasions I've been on the short side in the last the last sort of three or four years, but I mean, we're in a bull market. Well, certainly in the US, um, the Australian market, there was a great trade, short resources, um, until
[00:55:28] probably a year ago, uh, year and a half ago, maybe. I I'm not as good as at shorting stocks. So, purely my scorecard tells me that, so I'm not going to focus on it. If the market comes under distribution and I'm forced back to cash again by keeping a leading names watch list, the best names to short are the former leaders. Um they're the ones that will break down the hardest because they're the ones that have the most froth in them. So if I'm looking through uh the list there
[00:56:00] and they're all looking like they're going to, you know, continue falling, I'll move in on the short side. But it it's not something I want to be doing. I don't have any short positions on at the moment. It's not something when the market's uh giving on the long side that I want to be doing. Um just purely for a state of mind thing and uh and purely because the reward for me is not there. Um and and I don't I'm I'm not one who hedges out my portfolio. I mean very rarely will I do that. Maybe if there's
[00:56:32] a big event coming, I might, you know, use a few options or or take an index position, but um, you know, that would be once a year. Once or twice a year. Okay. So, really what you're trying to do here is just focus on your strengths. Ignore your weaknesses. Well, I'm I'm working on the weaknesses, but I'm working more on what makes me money. Um, you know, there's no point trading something that's not going to make me as much money, even if I'm better at trading it. the the the market, you know, especially the US that
[00:57:03] it's it's a strong uptrend. So, I just I don't think you need to be on the short side unless you're probably a shorter term trader than I am. Um, and absolutely, you know, nothing wrong with with trading short and and those people are good at it. Um, that's great, but it's yeah, it's just not one of one of my strengths. Um, so it's something it's not something I avoid, but it's something that just doesn't happen as a large percentage of my trades. Yeah, makes sense. Now, stepping aside
[00:57:33] from trading, something which you have done which I'd like to ask you a few questions about is you've actually taken some of your trading profits and you've put them into uh venture capital. What attracted you to venture capital? I've always liked, I guess, how business operates and and being involved in small businesses. I've got a few friends that have, you know, been pretty successful uh as entrepreneurs. And I guess when I was a analyst and
[00:58:06] working on um in the different side of the market, you'd meet so many uh company management spokesman for the company and you'd hear their stories and and some of them, you know, were great stories. Some of them you could quickly identify probably weren't going to amount to too much. But it always intrigued me to see how the business actually works under the hood. And um just I guess by chance um we got into well I got into the first one and bought a couple of other people in and it was a
[00:58:37] friend developing a business um and he was asking for for some advice and I said do you need you know some capital and and he did and and that business is is ticking along. We're sort of up to 80 staff now. Um and two of them I've started myself. Um and and the others again are just opportunities which I've seen which all of the ones we look at have an idea to to IPO or well ideally to IPO but they're products which
[00:59:09] potentially have that appeal and have that exponential growth. Um so like any startup they will require capital and and you know some will fail some will succeed. are similar to the market. It's it's um you know just trying to identify the good ones and and and stick with them because you're going to get your bad ones. There's no doubt about that. So we we've got five uh businesses now under there and and they're all alive at the moment. Maybe next year I can report
[00:59:40] in and tell you how they're going. Yeah. Yeah. Well, are there certain types of businesses which you prefer to invest in? Well, certainly the what we have invested in has been they're all very different. One's property, one's um one's equipment hire, one's a stock market, one uh one's fashion, and one's in agriculture. And it's all pretty different industries, but they're all connecting people. So I guess they're all this this new world um technology
[01:00:12] either one's AI one's um just aggregating all the all the suppliers uh and tender options. So it's just I guess they're just all trying to make it easier for company management to operate. So, we're trying to find them a solution at uh either no cost to them or very little cost to them and then something they can roll out through their businesses. And it certainly seems to be the the new the new way forward is um
[01:00:45] especially with AI and how it's starting to now come in is you know 10 years ago people thought WebJet was an out there or 5 years ago whatever it was was an out there process and having one website which shows you all the flights and and where they can go and I mean in a few years time you know it's just going to be a a chatbot or a personal assistant on your phone which you tell and and they go and source that data for you. So maybe we're just uh building products for the lazy man. But we'll see.
[01:01:17] So is that intentional that each one of these businesses is in a totally separate industry or is it just kind of worked out that way? No, it's probably more just worked out that way I think. But I think I think probably in the small business world, you're either very specialized and, you know, have have a big company or especially in the more venture capital uh model, you're you're probably a little bit more diversified, right? And have you noticed any big similarities between trading and venture
[01:01:47] capital? Well, I mean, it's all it's all just riskreward, so I guess I guess that's, you know, a a very obvious one. Um the you know the liquidity of the stock market is is just it's a it's a gift. People probably don't appreciate it enough. Um the ease especially if you're a small account, you know, if you're under $3 or $5 million, just your ability to come into a position and out of a position in
[01:02:18] minutes um is just huge. You can, as we've discussed, just move back to cash, take some time off. you can reather your thoughts and in the private business world, you know, you're stuck there and and most of businesses require multiple capital injections. So, you know, you've really got to make it work and and there's more often than not never a liquidity event. So, there's certainly different mindsets that that you need and and we've got good uh managers who who run all the businesses. So, that's
[01:02:50] um you know, they they take on that burden more than I do. Yeah, and that's a very good point. I mean, I recently sold a property and I remember saying to uh my girlfriend, I was just like, the process you've got to go through to sell real estate is ridiculous. You know, like if I wanted to sell, you know, a few hundred,000 worth of stock, I could literally do it within a minute. Exactly. You know, in real estate, that whole process drags out like 3 months pretty
[01:03:22] easily. So I think that liquidity of trading is is a huge appeal. Now you said earlier that you have plans or it's kind of um in the uh in the future to IPO some of these companies that would be the ideal situation. Um what's the what's the process involved in actually getting to an IPO and what's the incentive of doing so of going from a private company to a public company? the process. We've got one now, I guess you would call it in
[01:03:55] the process. Um, so you you meet a few brokers or or corporate advisers and and they either like and believe in the story or they don't. And assuming they do, um, you might do a preIPO, which for a a small the transition from a private to public business involves quite a lot in terms of compliance. So you might need x amount of new heads come in. So you might do a preipo to to be able to fund
[01:04:25] that. Um and get get all your you know everything audited and get everything looking correctly. And then uh and then you you move through it. It takes about a year if you're doing the preipo or or 9 months. Uh and the benefit I guess is is access to capital. um especially with with companies that have a lot of potential but require a lot of a lot of money to get there. There's only so much help that the
[01:04:57] founding shareholders can do and we've we've had a few external capital raisings um for the different companies and you know it's a very hard long process. Um we we were probably a year doing a raise for one of the businesses and it it really took the MDs a lot of their time and great we got it away. I mean you know it's it's fantastic and the company's company's growing growing quickly. Uh so I guess a liquidity event for shareholders the chance for new
[01:05:29] shareholders to come in who believe in the story and and the access to to capital to grow the business. So I guess that that those are the defining features. Yeah. Now that's good. And and so how does a preIPO work? Well, you you might just go to whatever broker it is and you might say we we want to raise four or 5 million on the IPO and we might need half a million or a million um you know 6 months before in order to employ you know maybe a professional chairman or a new a
[01:06:00] director who's got a name in the industry. um do your compliance, tidy up a few things. So, it's really just a little bit of teething money uh so you're ready to hit the market properly because there are those additional regulations and the cost of actually IPOing and and doing all that. So, you know, if if your if your business is flushed with cash, um you might you might not do a preipo. Um but if if you need a bit of tidy up money or expansion
[01:06:30] capital um that's something you do and and normally that might be sort of in a 6 month window until the IPO and those people who come in at that level are normally um given the shares or they purchase the shares at a discount to to what the IPO will be and that that might be 10 to 20 25% for taking on that additional risk. Right. Right. Okay. Cool man. Well, let's leave it at that. Um, where can listeners go to find out a bit more
[01:07:01] about you? Um, is there anything you want to share? Is there anything you're working on? Um, yeah, give us the lowdown. Well, we one of the the new companies I've been building, uh, it's called Subie, S U B E. And what we're trying to make is a new a new way to access financial information for stock traders in Australia. So I'll be providing every trade I do through there. There will be
[01:07:32] uh lots of lots of traders that I'm sure some of your listeners follow on Twitter um who will be doing that. We will be having trader meetups, discussions, really just trying to build a new platform to help educate and train people uh and and for for traders to watch someone trade and and learn their style and and eventually be able to to mimic it. So, we've been building that for the last 2 years and we're in uh beta at the moment. So, we're we're hopefully we'll be launching later on in
[01:08:04] in the year. Um but we've there's a web page up just for expressions of interest. So, if anyone wants to really see what I'm doing, I mean, I'll be doing everything through there by the time we open. Otherwise, um I'm just on on Twitter. Okay. And do you just want to share your Twitter handle one more time? So, it was @ rolly trader. Okay. And that's R O L Y Trader. That's right. Excellent. Well, thank you very much for coming on. It's been really great speaking with you and um yeah, thanks a
[01:08:35] lot for agreeing to do this. Thank you very much, Aaron, for including me and uh look forward to having a chat soon. You've reached the end of this episode of Chat with Traders, but rest assured there are more episodes loaded with real market insight and zero hype on the way soon. So to stay updated with each great new release, subscribe to the podcast and iTunes. And we'd love it if you'd leave a rating and review. We'll catch you next time on Chat with Traders. [Music]
